[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, so titles. What you need to understand about titles is that titles are pretty much just copywriting. And copywriting is a skill that impacts your titles, your thumbnails, your scripts, your sales pages, your emails. So what you want to do is get very good at it. So now I'm going to give you a little bit of a lesson on the basics of copywriting, which we're then going to bring into our titles in particular, as well as other elements later. So check out this video, and then I'll be back to give you some title rules.

[00:00:56] Speaker 1:
  It's going to impact your thumbnails, your titles, your scripts, your sales page, your emails. It'll even make everything you write again, 10 times more interesting to avatars. And understanding this now is going to help you a ton with the research task I give you in the next video too, because it's going to enable you to spot blinding videos, which is a good video. And it's called copywriting. But the thing that makes this so powerful is copywriting isn't about the words you write. It's about what the viewer feels when they read them. In story, we call this subtext. The idea is we write words, which makes the viewer feel like they're reading a book. Viewers connect the dots so they can use their brains to find meaning in them. When we do this well, it makes people really curious to want to know more. So they click, they listen, and they binge. Now it sounds deep, right? But I'm going to give you a bunch of ways to really simplify this down now. The first I call the Benz system. This is actually the brainchild of a copywriting legend called Carl Milligan. He called it Nesby. I just rearranged it and called it Benz because I thought it was easy to remember. So please pay attention to this because I'm going to say Benz a heck of a lot in this course now because it's so powerful. Each of the letters in the Benz system stands for something which will make your viewers feel something that causes some kind of reaction. Benz basically makes things more interesting, and you have to be interesting to your viewers as much as possible. Otherwise, they're going to watch someone else. So the first part of the Benz system is B. This stands for big. So no matter if you're coming up with a title or a hook or an intro, you really want your viewers to feel like they're going to get a big result from whatever it is you're saying. I mean, think about it. Why would someone waste time on something that didn't feel like it was going to have a meaningful impact on their life? Now, this means you're going to have to get used to big drama and making big claims and your thumbnails and your titles and your scripts, which makes a lot of people feel uncomfortable, but it's a critical part of the game everyone plays. So don't let your competition get the upper hand whilst you sit by ignoring it, going, oh, I'm not going to do it that way. Trust me, I was that guy for years. It didn't work. Next, we have E, which stands for Ed. No, I'm joking. Next, we have E that stands for easy. So if I told you that in order to grow a YouTube channel, all you need to do is one thousand different things over the next seven years, would you do it? No, you wouldn't. And that's why we need to make it feel like what we're going to teach people to get that big result is going to be easy too. This is a power play because if you make it sound easy in your thumbnail and title, you're going to be forced to write a script that makes it easy for the viewers to understand and get a result from too. So everyone wins. Next, we have the N, which means new. This is the most powerful of the bunch. Why? Well, because most of your viewers will be frustrated and they'll have tried to solve their problem. Doing other things people have told and they'll be blaming everyone apart from themselves. So if we can make it sound like our information is new, it's a game changer because they'll be more inclined to click and keep listing in search of that new game changing piece of advice that will change their life that makes them feel like all their mistakes wasn't really their fault in the end and they can blame everyone else online. The thing is, what if your info isn't new? Well, don't panic. It probably won't be. Read Horne Mosey's book, 100 Million Dollar Lease. It's pretty much just Russell Bronson's book and a load of old school business advice that's been around for years. Just repackaged in a way that feels new because he uses his own unique stories to make his point. So just keep in mind new is exciting and hooks people, but the info just needs to feel new to the viewers and the way you tell stories and use metaphors, I'll teach you to do another time is going to do this. And then we have S, which stands for safe. Now there's so much crap online, viewers, cold in particular, just do not trust creators. It's why they won't click on people they've not seen before in the same way they will on a creator they've been watching for years. So we need to find ways to make our videos feel new. So if you're a fan of social media, you might want to make sure you're not making videos that are just about making people feel safe to them. This is why social hacking works really well. So making videos about Mr. Beast and Elon Musk, these explode because they have a trusted face on. Your face probably has no meaning. No offense. So it might not make people feel safe. So now we know the basics to copywriting, which we're going to use in thumbnails, titles, intros, and our scripts and our sales pages and our emails and our social media. Anything else? I think. Let's break down some amazing videos that use Benz to get big views. Understanding this is really going to help you with the next video when we start to research and pull apart channels to learn how to get more views. Starting with this video, which is an amazing example of big in action. In fact, I go so far to say this is one of the best YouTube titles of all time in this niche. It really just stops you in your track. How to get so rich you question the meaning of making money. I mean, I mean, firstly, so rich is a big claim, but question the meaning of making money. That's the biggest claim ever. Big in this case is almost so big. It's almost all you need. Then we have easy. Well, to me, this isn't as strong in the title. Doesn't sound easy. The same time it doesn't sound hard. So I'm not put off. Oh, and by the way, there's subjective opinions here. You might feel very differently about this, but you have to remember YouTube is about appealing to your target viewers, not everyone. So you could read between the lines in a different way. New. Now this sounds new to me because I've never actually heard anyone say this before. Like it's usually how to make a hundred K, but this is the biggest thing I've ever heard. So the info feels like it's maybe going to be new to me. But also he's not really given away too much about what the video is about. So I'm kind of intrigued and then safe because it's for Mosey, you know, this guy's got credibility coming out of his ears. He should probably go and see a doctor about that. But if he was a nobody, what might make you feel safe? Well, the claims actually so big. I personally feel like only someone who knows what they're talking about would write such like this. So I feel a bit safer, but again, to me, big and new are the main drivers of this one. What's important to remember here is it's not a case of getting bends into all of them, a B or an E or an N or an S. Well, it's a lot of value in this video. So let's read between the lines because that's what great copy does. The subtext here, as in the words that are not on the screen, the viewers then fill in the gaps with their own mind is, I want that kind of money. This sounds like life changing information I can trust. What do I need to do and get that? Okay. Next we have a video that has blown up on multiple channels in all kinds of niches. All of them straight away lead with big. So a hundred books is a lot of content to consume and change my life. Well, that's a big claim. What's the view of thinking? Well, sounds like there's a lot of value in this video. I'm not sure if I'm right or not. Then easy. Well, the thing that makes this feel easy to me is, well, they've done all the hard work for me. Clark's video in particular, I think is strong because he says there's three lessons from 100 books, three lessons. It just sounds really easy to digest, right? If he'd said 350 lessons, I might've been more put off. Then there's new. To me, I've not read 100 books, probably ever. So I feel like there's going to be a lot in there that I don't know. And that makes the promise of this video feel safe. And this is one of the powerful things about videos that are packaged up like a challenge that if you really want to leave a mark on your niche, I'd recommend you do because they said you did the thing. It's not I tried to it's I did. And that makes me feel safe. There's going to be value in this and it won't waste my time. And then all of these things combined make the title and packaging very intriguing. So it gets a click. Okay. Let's look at one more. Oh, it's one of mine. How embarrassing, but it's a good one because firstly big, well, I made it sound like there's a sneaky thing. YouTubers are doing to hook you something you can't hear, which kind of makes it sound like a big claim that the viewers are going to want to know what the hell is that thing easy. Well, I think it's a hack is supposed to make it sound easy. That's why hack videos are popular safe. I've not said I do this. I've said the two massive YouTube is my audience respect do. So I've harnessed their credibility to get a click and new. I didn't name the hack, which makes it more mysterious. If I called it how YouTubers use body language. Yeah, that's that video would have been dead. So the subtext here is the viewers feel like they are being let in on a secret. Something is easy and there's credibility and there's a novel strategy that could give them an edge. Playing on their own. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I love the novelty. It's pretty proud of that one.

[00:08:30] Speaker 1:
  I guess as I mentioned, you don't have to get all four in. Don't sit there thinking this is the ultimate goal. But for your packaging and interest in particular, you need to create intrigue and using the band system will enable you to do this. But it's really important to use copywriting in the tile and thumbnail. We're going to be looking a lot more at thumbnails in coming modules, but a channel that's really good at this is charisma on command. They use words like tricks in their thumbnails to make it sound easy and new and they put big claims in their titles too. Just look at the words they use. There is nothing lukewarm about this. The words are powerful. Other creators do this in a way where they name their systems or rules to make it sound like they have a new process you can use to get a result, which makes it sound easy. A channel I was working on that follows the exact thumbnail and title system I'm going to teach you exploded when they switched a video thumbnail to this. Why? Well, you feel safe with this graph, right? It's like they have it all planned out and then 15 seconds, well, that's easy to do and the results they claim is also massive. So it's big. So your thumbnail and title have to work together as a team to follow the system, which is designed to make everything you do more intriguing, more exciting and more effective. And you have to inject this into your thumbnails and titles and your chosen writing. After Benz, there's a couple more tools to play with too. So the next is all about building more trust with your viewers, which in turn will make them feel safer. And you do that by being specific, which gets confusing because I'm going to tell you to be less specific with your packaging so that you can get more clicks, but I'm also going to tell you to be more specific with your packaging so you can get more clicks. So let me explain. What I mean by specific in the good sense, to get more views and hold attention longer is this. What we want to do is pitch a specific result in our thumbnails and titles. In its simplest form saying make $14 ,322 is specific versus make money, which is not. Specific attributes in your copy are more believable. They sound safer because it feels like you've put in the work to actually figure something out. So we want to be specific about things like results and that often comes in the form of time, money, speed, distance, age. There's a lot of different ways which you're going to see in a minute. The next tool is very powerful because it will get you more clicks or cause viewers to take action on what you've taught them to get the result they want, which means you'll build more fans and they'll understand why they need to keep listening to you. It's called urgency. Urgency creates stakes and you'll be learning a lot more about stakes and their power soon, but put it this way, they are critical for retention and clicks. So let me give you some examples of these in action. Here's Shelby Church using specific to make a title and thumbnail more unique. If she'll be able to do that, she'll be removing 400 square foot. It kinda wrecks it, right? Then this from James Dunn. He used the thumbnail to make the result specific with the time saving. It's a big claim. Sounds easy, because you're not going to get tired. It sounds unique and new with not what you think in the title. It's kind of ticking every box, but maybe urgent. Again, please don't worry about getting 100 % of the things I show you into a thumbnail and title. We'll use the intro and the content to harness them a lot too. You just need to make sure they include some of them. And then here's an example of a copy that goes to town on a lot of these things. Firstly, big. I mean, the entire economy about to collapse is not a small claim. It's new info because it's new. It's specific because it's saying it's got 29 days to go. And man, is it urgent. I mean, the stakes are very high for us if this happens, which is why he got 1 .8 million views. This is one of the things that makes news -based content so powerful, but it does have some drawbacks too, because it's not ever green. So I wouldn't recommend building a channel solely off news for that reason. Anyway, that's a story for another day. Which brings us on to some of the things that are going to happen in the future. So let's get into some title writing basics and putting it simply, use bends and try not to write titles about 50 characters long. For two reasons. Firstly, the less words to read, the easier it is for the information to sink into the viewer's head. So it really is key to keep them short. And secondly, because after 50 characters, YouTube cuts off the words anyway, so nobody sees them. We don't need to keyword stuff anymore. YouTube listens to your video transcript. It looks at every frame of footage to work out what it's about. So don't fall into the trap of just jamming in extra words because you think it helps. If it puts off humans, it puts off YouTube. Okay, so a quick summary. Copywriting is a power skill that will get you more clicks, longer watch time, more sales, and it's all about hooking viewers to pay attention and stay interested using words that make big claims, making things sound new, safe and easy. You can also use specific numbers and amounts to sound more believable and create urgency. Okay, so now you understand bends, which is a word you're probably going to hear us say a lot. Let's look at a few little title rules. So the first things first is we always want to try and keep our titles under 50 characters. If it goes over 50, what happens is, in certain places on YouTube where it is displayed, it won't show over 50 characters, so we could have important words cut off. But also, shorter titles are fastest to read, and that is a good thing. We want speed because if we can get a lot of information into a viewer's brain fast, they're more likely to click. We then want to make sure that they're clear, they're not like really vague or confusing. And what you tend to find is titles that set up a specific benefit or problem tend to do better. We also want to make them build curiosity and intrigue. And then this is something not enough people talk about, but I want you to keep in mind. We want to make sure they're a match for our credibility. So if you went and made this video, you took this title, 13 years of no BS business advice in 79 minutes, would someone who's never heard of you watch that? I mean, would you listen to a random person talk for 79 minutes? No, this works for Alex Hormozy because Alex Hormozy is famous. So he has a huge fan base and return audience base. They probably saw that and thought, I'll give that a shot. It probably gave it tons of satisfaction, so YouTube just pushed it out to more people, and that's why it got millions of views. But what you tend to find is if you don't have that pre -existing credibility that everyone has, you're going to have a lot of people who are knows about, it can be harder to get a click. So try to avoid things like my morning routine and 79 minutes of advice and how I comb my hair, because the eye, when you are not that well known, can often hold you back. Okay, so some mistakes you need to avoid is copying titles from large creators without the credibility, assuming familiarity, which I've just mentioned, relying on AI. So although we're going to use AI to write titles, we don't say, give me a title and just use whatever crap it spits out, because it's actually very bad at titles unless you're using the tools I give you. We also want to avoid using colons in titles that split them up. They make the title look crap, harder to read, but they're also very AI and people don't like that. We don't stuff keywords and make our titles super long, hoping they'll rank in search, because search doesn't even work like that anymore. YouTube will work out what your video is about based on the transcript and every second of footage it has, it analyzes. So it doesn't need keywords. And then using this weird line in a title to break it up. We just want a very simple title that's easy to read without loads of clutter. But Ed, this doesn't make sense, does it? Because, well, you've probably seen all of these rules that I'm telling you, you need to follow broken a thousand times on YouTube. And that is the thing that these rules are guides. They're benchmarks we should all start from. But if through your testing and measuring, you find out, oh, I can make a video called how I comb my hair and everyone clicks on it. We do more of it, right? So we start with these rules, but sometimes your viewers might like them to be broken. The other thing I just want to point out is I have made a title bank for you. You are going to do a

[00:15:17] Speaker 1:
  video called how I comb my hair and everyone clicks on it. So you can see what titles to make that appeal to your viewers. But this is also there to give you a little helping hand. These are titles that were performed on other channels that you could maybe go to for inspiration if you're running out of ideas and go, can I change this word so it applies to my niche? We're going to learn more about titles when we start doing research. But those are the basic rules for now. Next, let's get on to thumbnails.
