[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  A few years ago, I posted a video on Film Booth and I was convinced, this is it, this one's going to blow up. It had some of the best information I'd ever shared. It had deep data, algorithm analysis, and I spent absolutely days writing it. And it bombed on release, it did awful. But when I looked at the retention graph, everyone dropped off at the par that I thought was gold. And that is when I realised a painful, but eventually multi -million dollar lesson. Because I realised the way I communicated my information overwhelmed people and made it really hard to follow, so they left. So with that in mind, I thought, well, let's test this. And I made another video that did the exact opposite and it got 900 ,000 views.

[00:00:43] Speaker 1:
  And that's when I realised the secret to this. Whether it's YouTube marketing or email, great communication always comes down to just three things. So in this video, I'm going to show you what they are so you can grow your channel and your business in a niche -leading way. Alright. So let's start with what makes a great video for the business, creating the content. And that to me is just four things. You get sales, you get emails, you get views, and you learn a lesson so that we can then take it into our next video to make it even better. Okay, so what makes a great video for the viewers? Well, it's just three things that will make people go, how do I work with this person? And we can split them into a triangle. So the first corner of the triangle works like this. So the video I mentioned earlier. With 900 ,000 views work because I took something complicated, which was how YouTube works. And I framed it in a fresh way by comparing it to a chain with five links. And I said, if one of the links on this chain breaks, your whole system is going to fall apart. Now, I wasn't saying anything revolutionary. Creators have talked about this stuff for a while. But the way I presented that information made it feel new to people. And when something feels new, people pay attention and new gives people hope because they think maybe this time it's going to click. Maybe this is the version that works for me. So we always need to work out how can we make our information feel new very much like I'm hopefully doing for you right now. Hopefully. All right. So let's look at the next corner of an amazing script. So back when I made that super in -depth video, I thought YouTube was a game of trying to show people how smart you were with this next level information. But this is what makes people comment often. Get to the point or this is boring. Because you confuse it. You confuse people. And that wrecks your credibility. So the real secret is to make your viewers feel smart. And that's what the video 900 ,000 views did because I took YouTube's insanely complex system and broke it down into five clear parts. And I used a simple prop to visually show this. So the second corner of the great content triangle is making information feel easy to understand. Not basic, not dumb, but effortless to digest, which is very hard. And then the final corner of our triangle. Works like this. So let me ask you a question. When are you more likely to buy something on YouTube when a viewer feels like they understand something and could actually do it themselves? It inspires them to take the action steps that you give them. And if they do that and they get a result, they tie that result to you. Your credibility goes through the roof and you get fans. They will then come back to everything you make and enter your system. And they'll just be so much more likely to buy from you. So the final corner is to make your videos inspiring. So my mission is to turn you into someone who can do all of this. All of these things in every video that they make. But it also applies to email or any kind of communication you do for your business. Get these three things right and your content starts doing the heavy lifting for you. All right. So those are the three cornerstones of what makes great content. Now let's just have a quick look at what a video actually is. And it's only broken up into three chunks. You have a beginning, which is your intro. The middle is the points that you want to make or the lessons or the steps. It's basically just chunks of information that need to feel new, easy and inspiring. And then the last one is the most important. And then you have the end, which is when you tell them to watch another video. And that's it. So move on to the next video. Now we're going to look at the first part of a video, the intro. I'm going to show you how to turn a thumbnail and title into an intro that hooks people to want to stick around. So they binge your videos and fill up your sales system.
