[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Did you know that the thumbnail is probably one of the most important parts of your video? Now that might seem crazy because it's just a still image, but if we can't win the click, we can't get people to watch the video. We can't get people into our system. So this is one of the most important parts of YouTube, working out how to design thumbnails that get a click. So before we go into strategies and design, I'm just going to run you through the basics of what makes a powerful thumbnail. And really there's just three parts to it. Context, curiosity, and clarity. So let's look at context to start. So what is context? Well, this is probably the best example I can give you. Tell me what that video is about.

[00:00:34] Speaker 1:
  You can't, right? Because it just says, don't do this. It could be about recruitment. It could be about playing with fire, right? However, if I whack a YouTube logo on it and then point it at something from the YouTube dash, you suddenly know, ah, this is about YouTube before you read the title. So context is about making the topic clear in a split second. And it also then sets up our viewers' expectations and it will get our buyers attention. Because have you ever taken a car for a test drive before? What happens after you've taken a car for a test drive is when you're driving home in your normal car, you see the car you've test driven everywhere. This is known as frequency bias. So when we're interested in something, it actually sticks out to us more. So context can actually harness frequency bias if we put things in a different way. So if we put things in a different way, we can actually harness in our images that our viewers are interested in. And it doesn't have to be like really over the top. So let me give you a few examples of how to give context in an image. So we've got Mark Tilbury here and he's using money. So that's one way. We know that this video is about making money somehow. Vanessa Lau has put the Instagram icon in there. And then the Google calendar gives context to the topic. So icons are one way to give context to a topic of a video. And you'll see in my videos, I have to use this little YouTube logo all the time because if I don't, well, just having nothing else works gives no context. The next way you can give context is with familiar scenes. So we can see this here from Mark. It's got the LinkedIn dash and the LinkedIn icon. So we know this is going to be about LinkedIn. Same here. We've got the Google ads dash. Here in the background, we've got a living room. So this to me instantly gives context to design. And then this one, we've got the dumbbell. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to go to the living room. And we're going to go to the living room. And we're going to go to the living room. So we can see here that this is an icon. And we can see that the familiar scene gives context as to the topic. Another way to give context is with text. So Nisha just says, look poor. So we know this is going to be about money. This one has AI design is insane in it. So we know it's going to be about AI design. And then this one's about avoiding banks. We know it's going to be about banking. And then items as well. So James Smith here is holding some sort of thing. We don't know what it is. We can see a syringe. We assume it's about drugs and losing weight in a split second. So that gives context. Well, if the expat holds up a passport, so he knows me about passports. Deya holds up a book, so we know it's going to be about a book. The little test you can run when you make your thumbnail is when you made it, you look at it and you go, would my buyer instantly understand the topic of this video just by looking at the image? If the answer is no, we might need to add one of those things to it to give context. The next part of the triangle is curiosity. So curiosity hooks viewers, very powerful. And what we want is our thumbnails to make viewers think how, what, or why. So I absolutely love this thumbnail. 22 million views, simplest thumbnail ever, just says this is not yellow. So you're going, well, what is it then? This one here, 7 million views, because it's saying don't eat. It's like, well, hang on a second, I've eaten salami loads of times, why shouldn't I eat that? It makes me wonder how, what, or why. Same here, Dan Martell, act like you're broke. How, what, or why? And we've got some more examples here. So you don't need subscribers. Well, you've been told you do. So you're going, how do I do this? How, what, or why? Stop reacting. And then 7 % forever makes you wonder, how do I get that? There's money in there to give context. We know it's about making money before we even read the title. So a curiosity test you can run every time you make a thumbnail title is you ask, does this make my buyers think how, what, or why? And then we move on to clarity. So what's clarity? Well, clarity makes an image really easy to understand so that the context and the curiosity can actually work. And to create clarity, what I like to do is use what I've got. I call it a hero. So the hero is the thing in the image that needs to stick out so that our viewers go how, what, or why, and it gives context. So we can see in this image here, right? The hero of the image to me is this text. It sticks out first. Then it's Chris. The hero in the image is this text. Then it's me. The hero in this image is this text, right? And if we'd noticed Chris's face first, it wouldn't have been as powerful. The item could also be the hero. So we can see here, this thing's being held up. Or you could argue that the syringe is the hero. It's getting our attention. The passport here is the hero. It sticks out first. The book here is the hero. It sticks out first. And then you can have things like the result as the hero. So this big graph spike, and then this big number, that's the thing that's sticking out to me. Then we've got 7 % forever. That's a big result that sticks out. And then we've got these nice big muscular arms and shoulders. They're sticking out a ton. So that's the hero, right? Nice and clear. So a test that you can run every time you make a thumbnail. But to make sure your image has clarity is just asking yourself, does the most important element to my viewers, it's going to hook them, get them interested, stick out. So that's kind of the very basics of what makes an amazing thumbnail image and packaging to get a click. Next, we're going to move on to some thumbnail strategies that go a little bit deeper.
