[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, so now you've got that data, it's time to ask what the heck does it actually mean and how do we learn a lesson from it? Because without a clear lesson, those numbers are just numbers and you can't grow on just numbers alone. So all the benchmarks I'm about to talk you through are in the video planner in the learner lesson section. There's a big checklist in there too if it's going to help. If you're using RevTrack, some of the data we're going to go through will have been pulled together nicely on a dashboard, but you can follow this if you don't have it too. It's just going to take a little bit more manual tracking and the data is not going to be as clean. All right, so the first thing you do to learn a lesson is you start on step one and you ask, did I hit my goal? The goal you set every time you plan the video, views, sales or emails. The answer is no, we try and find out why. If the answer is yes, we try and find out why. That's it. Then step two, we go to the video lesson checklist to try and work out why that video did what it did. Problem is, look how flipping big it is. Tons of things, right? And that's the thing that sucks about YouTube. This is how many bottlenecks you can come up against versus this in your marketing and this in your sales system. It's weird. It's way more complex and it's way harder to learn a lesson. So what I'm going to do now is just break down the four biggest places that most of the mistakes or reasons for success happen. And they are positioning, packaging, scripting and execution. So let's start by breaking down positioning. So if your views are lower than you expect, say you're an eight or 10 or worse, basically what happens is your fans and your return viewers didn't click. They didn't come back. And that's often because the topic or the format left what they expected, from you. And this is what sucks about YouTube because it's very hard to tell that you have left that sometimes. Another reason this might happen to you is because you are just solving too many problems for too many types of people on your channel. So here's what you want to do when a video flops. Drop your thumbnail and your title into guardrails and just ask, why did this flop? And then it's going to give you some lessons based on the brain that you filled out and the way that you want to position your channel. That in itself might then give you the lesson that you can add to this sheet. Now, if it scored, a one to four out of 10 usually means it's taken with your existing viewers and it's potentially grown with a new audience too. So you've got faster views on release and we want to find out why. So we can throw it into guardrails and ask, why did this video perform? And it's going to tell us. And then you want to go through the video checklist too, to establish at least one lesson as to why. But what I would do every time is just remake that video in a slightly different way. So repeat the format, very similar title, very similar thumbnail. And that can be your lesson that you try. If you land in a video that you've done before, you're going to have to do a little bit of a different thing. So you want to go back and look at the five to six out of 10. It's much harder to learn a lesson from. It basically means you probably didn't grow with a cold audience. You brought some viewers back, but you maybe didn't bring a huge amount of them back. So in terms of positioning, you might want to look at it and ask, was this a topic they really care about? Now, the next biggest criminal here is packaging. It's basically your thumbnail and your title and your format. So look, forget click through rates. Just think of this on a human level, not an algorithm level. It's too hard to interpret. So I think of it like this. If the views are low, did you make the wrong video format for your fans and your return viewers? A style of video they're not used to you making and are not interested in? Or did your thumbnail and title lack the how, what, and why curiosity? And then the third thing is, is the design just amateur cluttered or breaking the design rules? 90 % of the time when a video doesn't perform, it's going to be the positioning or these thumbnails. Now, if your video exceeded expectation, all you do is you mark the thumbnail and title and that style to reuse as well as the format. And you can also ask gardener, why did it perform to try and learn a little bit about it too. Now, the third thing that causes a lot of the problems is scripting. So if you look at your video and you're like, do you know what? The positioning is good. The packaging is good. This is exactly what my viewers usually want. It's usually a sign that you missed the mark with your script. So one thing you can check is, is your average watch time down, which you can find out here when the video is being displayed. Now keep in mind, if your video is shorter, it's going to be down. That's just how it works. So don't just look at that number and go, oh no, it's down. That's bad. Usually if positioning and packaging is hitting the mark, it basically means your script has confused people, didn't match their expectations, didn't exceed it, didn't give them information that felt new, easier, inspiring. So that's the next thing you want to look at. So what I would do is I would take your script, put it into point bot and say, why did this script not perform? And it's going to give you up to 10 issues, 10 lessons you could learn. And you can go through and when one sticks out, that can be your lesson. And then the fourth problem is execution. So if everything else is really good, if your script's good, if thumbnail and title is good, you position it, you can go through and then you can go through and then you can go through and positioning is good, but your delivery is flat or you're nervous or you're too fast. This is going to be it most of the time. And the thing about this is the only way you can fix it is just by practicing. So the more you present, the better your pacing, the better your energy, the better your edits, the more confidence you have, the more your results are going to increase. Now, AI can't help you to diagnose this yet. So if you look at all of those things and you think they all worked well, this could potentially be the unfortunate issue staring you in the face. Okay. So then once we've done the metrics for the videos and we've tried to learn a lesson, we go over. To look at the business metrics. So if your goal was sales from the video, RevTrack's going to show you the click -through rate and the conversion rate on the sales page and the benchmarks that we use to learn from here to work out if that was good or bad are 5 % click -through rate. That's a rocket

[00:05:16] Speaker 1:
  repeat, whatever you did, a three to 5 % click -through rate. That's excellent. Just repeat exactly a one to 2 % click -through rate is still above average. So here you want to check if the call to action was early enough or came after some value. And was relevant and then below 1 % click -through rate. This is actually the industry average. What you want to try and do is add in maybe another call to action and make sure your call to action is very tightly aligned with the content of the video. If I'm talking to you about how to write a script, and then I do a call to action for a thumbnail product, that's not in line. So you're going to see your click rates drop and also make sure your links at the top of description and the top comment. And if you're below a 0 .5 click -through rate, that needs some immediate action, but it basically means people aren't interested in what you're trying to sell them. So you need to ask. Why for the same reasons as before. Now, when it comes to sales page conversions, you need to realize this. So RevTrack is going to show you data. That's going to show you the sales page conversion rate of that particular video. But we don't want to go making changes to our sales page based on this individual number, because what can happen is I can make a video. It's really in line with my offer, nail the call to action and warm people up so much. They click on the sales page and more people buy, or I can do a worse job. And that same sales page could not perform based on what I did and said in the video. So we make all of our decisions about updating our sales page based on the information I'll teach you in phase seven. And then we want to look at the click -through rate and conversion from our email or our lead magnet. So once the data is loaded on day seven, you can look and if you've got an 8 % or above click -through rate on that, that's unbelievably good. Repeat whatever you did. Your lesson is just repeat above 5%. We're still excellent. Three to 5 % above average. Still keep going. So 3 % that's the industry average. You want to move your click -through rate earlier. You want to make sure you mentioned it multiple times in the video that they can sign up. You want to make sure your call to action is very in line with that lead magnet. And then if it's below 1%, you got to fix that. And it's the same for the email signup page as the sales page. Don't make changes based on this data, the individual conversion rate from a video, because that can go up and down a lot. We make changes based on what I teach in phase seven. Okay. So you're going to see down the video here at the bottom, the lessons checklists, all the benchmarks are on it. It's going to help you ask questions that help you establish things too. Now what you need to go and do is batch produce your next three to four videos, following the system, start testing new formats, repeating what works, drive some traffic into your system. That's had some minor adjustments. The goal of the first three to four videos is just to make sure the minor adjustments did anything. Or if we need to do more heavy lifting and rebuilds of our sales system after, which for many of you, the answer is going to be yes, but it doesn't make sense to do the hard work. The simple work might work first, right? Once you've made these videos, move on to phase seven, where you're going to learn how to measure your entire business pipeline from YouTube to actually people signing up. And then we're going to work out what your next 10 X move and thing to work is on from that point.
