[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, so now I'm going to show you how to put a pattern bank, which we are then going to turn into a ton of ideas and our strategy. And really, the goal of doing this is to research YouTube, to find patterns that work to grow channels, so that we can understand what buyers, viewers love and what they hate as well. And then what we're going to do is we're going to build like a minimum viable avatar profile, which we're going to ideate from. We're going to use AI and we're going to use our own brains as well to kind of speed all of this up. And the process we're going to go through looks like this. So step one, we're going to look at our own channel and we're just going to look for what's already worked, establish those patterns. And this is the quickest win. So if you're an established channel, you can pretty much just repeat the same patterns over and over again. Then we're going to examine the niche and the niche is going to give us proven insights. So it's going to show us topics, titles, thumbnail strategies, formats that our ideal viewers really love. And then we're going to bring that back to our channel. And then we look at the adjacent. So we're going to look at the niche, which is going to enable us to find kind of patterns that make things more interesting to people and allow us to differentiate. And we're going to bring that back to our channel. And the patterns that we're going to analyze are these. So we're going to look at topics on our channel and in our niche. Basically, what subjects seem to get the most views. Titles. So the structure, the words, power words, as I call them. So like emotionally impactful words full of bends that keep popping up associated with views. We're going to look at thumbnail style. We can look at thumbnail text. We're going to look at the formats to establish what kind of formats our viewers really like. And we have a little look at production style too. But the first step we're going to go through is researching our own channel. So all we want to do is find out what viewers love and what they hate from your existing channel and pay close attention to your formats, because not enough people focus on the style of video and reproducing that. And for you experienced channels, this is going to be a goldmine. So before we go in to do this, let me just give you a quick reminder of what we're going to be doing. So we're going to start with what an outlier is in case you were not paying attention in the last video. You cheeky little thingy.

[00:02:07] Speaker 1:
  So outliers are videos that noticeably grew a channel. So if it's got like three times the views of the average video on that channel, that's an outlier. Anything above 2x usually. So long as it has a lot of views for the niche. And outliers are potentially signs of what your viewers want more of. And we're going to use a little robot to help us do this. So this is the process I want you to run through. Step one. You highlight your channel. So we're going to pretend we're Dimitri and we're a drumming channel. So I'm just going to highlight our channel and I'm going to scroll down a couple of years. We need a decent viewer pool size. Like don't put thousands of videos into this thing. Get back a couple of years, I would say. And then hit copy. All right. And then what we're going to do, we go to avatar research. We paste that in. Hit send. And it's going to take a little while to do its thing. But eventually what it's going to do is it's going to spit out this. So it's breaking. Down the patterns on the channel for you, which you are then going to apply to a sheet like this. So let me just give you a quick rundown of what this looks like. So it's going to pull out the top 10 highest performing videos from that selection and then analyze them. Now, what you need to do is manually verify this, too, because it will make mistakes. Sometimes it might miss things out. But have a quick look and go, yeah, this looks about right. Then it's going to pull out the power words, things like genius, fast patterns, words that keep repeating that are associated with a lot of views. So you'll put them in the power word list. You'll put them in the title list. By the way, if you're on a Mac, when you copy this data, what you want to do is to make it paste in a line. Press shift control option V and it'll paste it down like that. If you're on a PC, buy a Mac.

[00:03:47] Speaker 1:
  I'm going to use the PC for years. I can't actually advise on that. Sorry. I'm sure there's a.

[00:03:54] Speaker 1:
  You paid. You paid money for this.

[00:03:57] Speaker 1:
  All right. Then it's going to. Break down patterns in the titles. So not necessarily like words, but what makes the titles interesting to viewers? So it picked up on a use of striking question or statement with a twist on common drumming errors or works that direct promises work. The inclusion of well -known names or bands does well. So social hacking. So we'll put that on there, too, in the title patterns. And then we'll come in and look at topics. So improving drumming techniques and hand speed, learning game changing your own patterns. Common. Practical demonstrations. And then it will say the most common video length is around ten minutes. So it's not to say just make ten minute long videos, but it is telling us something that this channel is built on shorter videos. So if to meet you to make a longer one, we might find it struggles because that is not what the audience has been built on. Then it's going to make a lot of formats. So it roughly knows based on the title what format there is. This is a tutorial technique. So it's basically a process video, step by step, practical drills and methods and a breakdown and analysis of other people's drumming. Then we look at things viewers hate. So it's going to analyze the flops and tell you vague advice that lacks clear, actionable drills. Content that doesn't demonstrate real improvement techniques. And then it's going to give you some titles based on the outliers with a slight tweak. So old title was this new title was did this blunder make Phil Collins a master? They're not the best. It's just to give you some ideas on how to reposition titles yourself. And this is very important here. Please manually verify everything in this list, which I'm going to show you how to do now. So once we've done that. We're going to manually verify it. So patent spotting is a skill that you just need to build. It's really, really, really important. And although AI is great at this, if you don't practice this yourself, you're very reliant on a robot and not the good robot in your head. And that's the one that's going to spot things. It's going to grow the channel too. So let's have a look at Dimitri's channel just to do a quick manual overview of this. So we're going to go down. We're going to look what's performed above average as an outlier. This one here, 171 ,000 views. The drum beat that changed my life. It's already on the list, so I'm not going to add it. But that's interesting, right? It's like, okay, maybe we could use that title. So we could put it in the new title idea bit here and maybe change it to the drum fill that changed my life. So it's similar. And then let's keep going down. We've got five easy grooves that turn beginners into pros. So I like this. Easy. If you think of big bends, this is easy. And it's got a very specific result in the title. So I like that title. I'm going to check. Is it on our list? There it is. If it's not on the list, just add it. The technique beginner drummers. Don't spend enough time on. So if I was Dimitri, I'd probably thinking, how do I repeat this in a very similar way? So it would be the fill beginner drummers. Don't spend enough time on. And I'd probably just have nobody told me this pointing at a slightly different type of image. And that's the idea. We'll manually go through, look for problems, things viewers hate, the formats that seem to work. And another thing you can do is you just go to the most popular and then have a look. Right now, just keep in mind when you do this on some channels that really established, they're going to be making videos for 20. Years. Don't look at the 20 year old videos. Like I tend to look at anything within the last two years because some stuff can go out of date. So yeah, I'd be looking here and going right. Mistakes, techniques, clear results. These are the patterns of what works here. Clear result, clear result, fast, fast. So speed is the thing that viewers love. So I'd be thinking, right. If I want to make a video that gets more views, I'm going to take one of these titles, get lightning fast feet with this simple hack. I'd probably get get lighting fast hands with this simple hack. And then what we're going to need to do is at the moment, the AI from that analysis isn't slick enough. So we also want to add this section here from now patterns. So what we need to do is just manually go in and have a look at the outliers and go, right, where's this? Boom. Hundred and seventy one thousand views. Just play this. Just play this. One hundred and thirty nine thousand views. You see the pattern there. So I'm going to make sure I get just play this down on the sheet. I'm also just going to look at other sort of things like Star. Okay. So if you look at the matrix outliers, we've got social hack did really well. Curiosity. Stop this. What does that mean? Nobody told me this is a curiosity based one. This is a result based one. Faster hands in one week. This is a curiosity like what every day. So if it makes you go what, why or how it's generally curiosity. If it has a result in it, it's a result. So ten times easier. That's the result. Just play this curiosity. This one's a result, but it's also a comparison, right? So I'd be thinking, oh, that's that comparison. One did well looking at the meat. She's allies. He's not actually repeated this much again. So if I was Demetri, I'd be thinking, right, well, we need to repeat. Stop this. Nobody told me just play this and probably more comparisons because that one went well. And I haven't seen it again here, but so that's the name of the game with researching your own channel. You want to do is build it up onto the sheet. And now if you are new or you're pivoting or you don't have much data, you don't mean to see. Don't worry. Just keep going with this process because it doesn't matter that much. Like we're going to build this pattern bank around all sorts of different things anyway. But if you are an experienced channel, the golden rule is this. Anytime you want to make a video, the first thing you want to do is go to your own channel to repeat what works. And then if you've repeated what works too often and you want to come up with a new idea, then read the wider niche pattern bank because it's just silly not repeating already work for us. And the next thing we're going to do is we're going to go and research the niche. And what you need to do is you want to find five channels and fill out the same sheet for each. Doing the same process. And then after that, we're going to build one avatar profile, which basically puts all of this data together and creates something we can look at that gives us a very good overview of the avatars loves and hates, which we can then ideate from. Thing is, how do you find channels to then research? Well, there's a few different ways. First things first, just search your avatars problem. Just type in like play drums faster. And then we can see this channel here from beats online. Nine thousand subscribers. Lots of views. This looks. Maybe a good channel to steal stuff from. So that would go through the process. The other option is to go to your audience. Also watch. Right. So when you click in analytics and go to audience, you'll see here there's other channels that your viewers are watching. So remember how YouTube groups your viewers together based on their watch history. This is what the group it's feeding your channel to is watching as well. And we want this audience also watch to make sense. I want to look and go call Callaway makes sense because he teaches social media. Think media does business. And YouTube Grove Tom from Alexander the creators presenting on camera. Sunny does exactly the same thing as me. Where's does marketing. So I'm like, this is a great place for me to be having my content fed. Now, if you're new or small, you won't have this. But before you go and research these channels, you just want to click on them and go, is this the sort of thing my avatar be watching? Because sometimes you are in the wrong place and we don't want to research the wrong channels. So there's a massive amount of channels I could research here. So click on them. And look, if you had. An abundance of time, I would say, do this on every single one of these channels and find the patterns. But I know you don't. We're also can get very overwhelming having a huge amount of data on your patent bank. So I think five is a good pool to start. If you have time and we can squidge that up to 10, that's going to be great. But let's start with five. So that's the next way. The other way is to create a dummy account. So the way this works is this. You basically start a brand new YouTube account. Don't post any videos on it. But go and watch what you're. Avatar watches only what your avatar is going to watch. So we would look at drum speed videos. We would go on one of these channels that we found like drum beats online and we watched like three videos of theirs in a row. We'd like we could comment. We could hit subscribe. We're going to act like our dream viewer does right. And then find another one. Now, look, when you click on these videos, what you're going to see is down the side. There's probably more drumming stuff somewhere. So Drumeo. So you might just find there's another channel we can analyze here. Same thing. Watch a few of them. And what will happen is this on a say nine videos. When you go on the home page, YouTube's then going to know this is the type of viewer that goes in this bucket with all these other types of viewers. Now, let's start pushing them stuff on the home page. We think they're like based on the viewing behavior of similar people. And you can then scroll down here and go, oh, look, Demetri's popped up. Right. That's cool. And you'll then be able to find other channels that you might not have discovered before. And this is a great way to find like up and coming. And you can then go on the home page and you'll see that there's a lot of people that are going to be like, oh, look, Demetri's popped up. And this is where I like to research. The other benefit of doing this is at some point we want to see your channel appear here. And when your channel appears on the home page of your dummy account, it's a great thing because it means YouTube knows what you're all about. And it's going to start pushing your content to more people like your avatar. So we want to end up on this page. I highly recommend doing this. It will take up time. And really, you should be going in every day. For 15 minutes, clicking on videos your avatars might like having a bit of a watch. The more content you consume, the better you're going to get this. And we're going to understand patterns and thumbnails and so on. So do that. The other thing is one of 10. I'll do a little tutorial on how this works. It's a software for helping you find outliers, but it's got a free Chrome plug in which will activate these little blobs. So instead of you having to manually work out what an outlier is on a channel, it just puts the number right. So 11 .9 X outlier. That's one we want to get on our sheet. And I know this is a four X. We get that on the sheet and analyze this is a three X. Get it on the sheet and analyze. So that's how you can find different channels. I do a mixture of all of them. But the game changer for me when I went from not being able to grow to absolutely blowing up was this. It was when I started to understand patterns and what viewers do and don't want. So I can't recommend spending time here enough. So once we found a channel, it's the same process. So let's say in Dimitri's niche. Let's say. We found this guy, right? He's called Steven Taylor. So the first thing I find him and go, oh, he's got a lot of subscribers. That's cool. All right. So his views are kind of low per subscriber. That doesn't matter. We just want to find outliers like this one. It's a 58 ,000 outlier. What else we got? Let's keep scrolling. 70 ,000 views is pretty good.

[00:14:15] Speaker 1:
  So he's got some outliers on here. So we'll do the same thing. We're going to highlight and then we're going to paste into the research bot. And then the research bot is going to give us the data which we can quickly analyze. So. So same process again. Manually check. Does this look about right? I find it a lot easier to look at the patterns like this without all the fun that was distracting. So drum mistakes. Remember from Dimitri's channel, one of his best videos was mistakes. Why this three note drum technique is genius. That did really well. So we can then look at words of his love. So mistakes kill finally better cheat pro. Not much is about speed on this one, which is interesting because Dimitri's channel was rocking speed really well. It's going to go back and manually check that. Cause that seems a bit unusual to me. So doesn't actually look like this guy is doing speed. Some look at his old ones. Now some of his go back years. We might want to discount them, but let's have a look. Mistakes did really well three years ago. This comparison styles done well from him. Yeah, he's not done much on speed. So maybe, maybe he should be. Then we look at the title patterns. So bold claims comparisons, cheap versus expensive. So we can, we'll note down these on our sheet in the same way as we did before. Like remember, it's very simple. Just like that. Then we look at the top things. Viewers love the formats. So again, it's tutorials, step -by -step drumming guys. This guy's got reaction and breakdown. So if we look at Dimitri's, the formats were step -by -step that's the same breakdown analysis. That's the same and mistakes. That's the same. So we're seeing a pattern here. Okay. Maybe there's these three types of videos we should be trying out first. So step -by -step could be a short process or a deep dive breakdown or analysis is basically a case study or a reacts. And mistakes videos is the listicle. So after that, we want to look at the thumbnail patterns again. So I will eventually build an AI that can do this, but it wasn't good enough yet for you guys to use. So what I'm going to look at is text first. So in these outliers, what have we got anything? This one, learn drums, 10 days, day one. So it's kind of like results based, but I don't like series content like this. It never does very well. So I'm going to ignore that. How is this possible? That did very well. And it's a social hack. So I would note that down in the thumbnail thing in the thumbnail section, we'd put in. Okay. Social hack. What else do we got? Why is Steve again, analyzing someone drum teacher reacts, analyzing someone. So he's social hacking a lot, insanely simple approach to drumming that works. So do you remember Dimitri's title structure earlier? It was like five easy beginner. Some things to get a result. That's the title structure that's working here. Something easy to getting a result viewers want. So I'd maybe note that down, but let's keep going. Any other patterns, huge mistake pointing at something. So that's the name of the game. Now you're going to do this. I don't really recommend your pattern sheet goes too much bigger than this, right? So you can see I've got gaps, but if you've got a thousand things on one channels, pantry, you're not finding patterns. You're just creating a list. The idea is to simplify this down into some patterns. And if you're worried, what if I've missed some doesn't matter. As long as you found some, that's fine. Cause we need something to work with to start. And as you get better at this over time, you're going to start to spot more things. One more thing before we move on to the next step is when we're analyzing. Pans within our niche. What we need to also keep in mind is this, right? So let's use Alex for Moses and example, cause I see so many people try and copy him. So we could look at Alex's channel and go, if I wanted to become a millionaire in 2024, this is what I do. Oh, I'm going to make a title like that. Alex is famous for being a millionaire. So what happens is his fans come in and see this, give a huge watch time that then blast it to more people like them. You keep pushing it because it's like the data on this, the viewer satisfaction is so high. It's going to force this video up. But if we don't have that back history that people know about, why is someone going to click on an hour long video of us with some full guide blueprint when they don't know, like, or trust us yet. So you do want to be a little bit careful when you're doing this sort of stuff thinking would someone cold actually listen to me doing this and often with her Mosey and especially this style with the tweet in it doesn't work because. Well, he has a Twitter following. If you don't have a Twitter following and you're quoting one of your tweets, it doesn't work. So just keep that in mind. The just because it works for one of the biggest in your niche doesn't necessarily mean it could work for you. Of course, we test measure and refine. So then the next step is you're going to create an avatar profile based just on your niche. All right. So what that means is let's say we've got Dimitri's channel here. We're going to go to the brain and we're going to dump all the titles in here. It's going to delete that for now. And then we're going to go to the other guy with his outliers. I'm going to dump all of his titles in. Then we're going to dump all of the power. And then all of the title patterns, then all of the top three problems, then all of the thumbnail patterns. And we want to create this spreadsheet with all of the data in. And then I want you to paste that into research bot, the avatar research bot with the prompt, create my avatar profile.

[00:19:11] Speaker 1:
  So I'm just going to assume this is it, right? So it's create my avatar profile. I'm going to hit send and then just leave it a while. It's going to take a while to do this thing. Okay. So what that has now done is it's taken. All of the outlier information. Okay. So it's taken all of the information from all of those channels and it's distilled it into the top forming titles. You just want to double check them then across all of them, what it thinks the things the viewers love most is. So if it noticed that on each channel, the similar things were appealing, similar thing, similar title structures kept popping up. It's going to list them here. If it noticed that they had similar power words, it's going to list them here. It basically gives weight to the things that repeated the most. And this information that you are now given. I would make a new avatar profile. I'm going to go to my brain document here. Just duplicate it, put it in, and you can use this as something that will now help you make decisions. So anytime you have an idea, you can come in here and go statistically, is this what my viewers love the most? Or is it something they hate? Or is there a better title structure or a better type of video I can make or a better video length? So don't just assume this is always right and it's not right right now. It's something that, and it's also something that we develop and build on over time. So it's just the start, but this should help give you clarity on direction. Okay. All right. So then step three, what we're going to do is we're going to research some of the adjacent niches. So for Dimitri, let's say it's going to be guitar. So guitar play guitar. I'm just going to put that roughly in. It doesn't really matter. Let's just have a look in search quickly. What can we find this guy? He's a, he's not getting many views now, so I'm not going to look at him. I want someone who's got better views consistently. What else? What else have we got here? All right. So we knew drum mistakes were good. So I'm going to put guitar mistakes. Let's just type something in until we find it. Ah, so we've got Trey here. We've got this person, 7 ,000 subscribers, 187 ,000 views. Yeah. I like the look of this channel. What I'm going to do here is the same thing. I'm just going to go back a couple of years and I'm going to whack this into research bot. Let's do this thing. Now. What you need to understand here is we're going to fill out the sheet in the adjacent, but we don't want topics because this is about guitar, which isn't necessarily the same. So we're not going to copy what works in chords. What we want to look at is title structures, power words, title patterns. The problems are not going to be as relevant. And then we're going to get rid of things viewers hate because that might not necessarily be relevant. It could be, but we'll simplify it and we're just going to be left with formats viewers love. Because we might find a pattern in the music niche. It's basically all about step -by -step process, title patterns, powers, allies, high was problems. And then from now patterns as well, we're going to leave. And what we want to do is fill this out. I'm just going to do this manually. It was the AI is working in the background. We could look here and go, Oh, tier ranking guitar skills from easiest to hardest tier list that did well. So we could maybe put that on our title list. He plays guitar so fast. It makes me want to quit. Now this one's interesting. I would definitely put this on the list, right? Because I'm going to paste it like that. We knew that drum speed was appealing in the drumming niche. So I'd probably be thinking he plays drums so fast. It makes me want to quit. And then I'd be looking at, all right, I got humbled. I'd maybe put that and do a very similar style type of thumbnail. And you know what? It's like, this is the sort of thing we test. So this one, everything I know about playing guitar fast again, speed, it needs to be working. And then we've got this improve your playing speed. So this fun now we know our niche is about speed. So I'm looking here going, right. I could do drums, improve your drum speed, hundreds to 170 before and after I probably clean this up a little bit, but look, we've got this other, I got humbled. Pat here. So we're seeing patterns with that work in this niche. And then that we've got some big views here. Ultimate major scale masterclass for guitarists. So this is an hour and it worked practice this every day. I like that. So I'd maybe put, excuse this hypo. I put that in there. Yeah. Skills intermediate guitar should have. So that's an interesting title, but you know what? If I go back to vague motivation advice, lacking clear action steps, skills, intermediate. I think that's a little vague. So although that's an outlier, I'm thinking, Hmm, and actually no, it doesn't demonstrate tangible improvement or drill techniques. Like they love step by step tutorials and breakdown analysis. And I think skills into me cause I should have maybe wouldn't suit the avatar we want. Now, of course we're going to try it just to confirm what we think to be true. But this is why I like having the, the hates and loves in this small document. We can fast track stuff. So how to improvise solos on the guitar, the hard way. Now that's weird because the easy way worked in the drumming world. So we could maybe have how to improvise solos on guitar, the easy way, and then just have drums like this actually worth it. So hopefully you can see what I'm doing here. Let's go back to the avatar research bar. So, okay. So what it's done is it's, it's put his outline.
