[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  So what I'm gonna do now is I'm gonna roast one of my old scripts, but I'm only gonna talk you through setups and payoffs in it. So here we are. It's called YouTube's Hard Until Businesses Do This. And then the thumbnail says make boring videos in it. We're not gonna bother with the intro. I'm just gonna start from the setup, not the hook, not the bit that comes before it. So the setup of the intro says this. In this video, I'll show you why making boring videos works now, why they're becoming the easiest way to grow business on YouTube, and why this approach is only gonna become more important in 2026. All right, so the red is a setup, the green is a payoff. So all I've done here is set up the main value of the video, and that basically just tells the viewers what to expect. It's like a target they know the content is gonna be aiming at, and at that moment in time, they'll be sitting there going, I want to know that, or they don't. And what we want that setup to do is to make them curious. So they go, I want that, which is an art. And the more you get to know your viewers and understand their problems, the more you have clients, the more you'll understand what they actually care about. And then what we do is we transition.

[00:01:03] Speaker 1:
  First, let's just look at what a boring video actually is and why they grow businesses and channels. So a transition is basically just a setup.

[00:01:12] Speaker 1:
  And then you pay it off what you have just set up. So the intro has the big overall setups that we can pay off at any time in a video if we like. They don't have to be right at the end.

[00:01:25] Speaker 1:
  And then the transitions are other little setups that we don't have to state, we were gonna cover in the intro, but it creates the setup, pay off, setup, pay off, setup, pay off that keeps people interested. So first let's look at what a boring video actually is and why they grow businesses channels. So boring videos are what Nick for reviews to make over 300K a month from driving YouTube viewers to a low ticket community. They are what Hamza used to become one of the fastest self -help channels. They're what the Wizard Liz used. And they look almost unplanned. They come across as very authentic and they can be of any length. The visuals in these videos are almost non -existent, maybe a whiteboard, a few scribbles, or something drawn on a paper, and yet these channels crush it for views and sales. So I have set up what is a boring video, and by the time this section ends, the viewer knows. Now, a lot of people get really confused by an early pay off and I think the best way to describe it is like this. So imagine I've just said all of this and I've shown these visuals to show you what a boring video is, and I've said they don't have, you know, they're on a whiteboard, they do this. You as a viewer now go, cool, I get it. Now, if I continue to go, so boring videos are really just about not doing that much in the video. And you can just sit there and you can talk to a camera and you don't need any fancy editing, and really it's just about being yourself on camera, like you get it, right? So an early pay off is often because you've just said the exact thing in a way where any more explaining you do is gonna make the viewer go, get to the bit you promised a minute ago, I understand, hurry up. So if we were to reorder this script and it said, first, let's look at what a boring video actually is and why they grow businesses, if I just put that here and said boring videos are things with non -existent graphics, whiteboards, a few scribbles, and just someone talking to a camera, and then I said, Nick Sherev makes them and shows them on the screen, right? And Hamza used them and the Wizard Liz uses them, it's okay,

[00:03:25] Speaker 1:
  but they get it. So they're gonna start to have that tension drop, which is gonna make them go, all right, all right, get to the point. And that's when they say get to the point, because the point has been paid off so they want their next one. So what you need to look out for is, not just paying things off early, but am I over explaining this? Has the point been made? And often when I read your guys' scripts, I'm like, delete 10 lines, you did a good enough job with your example. And that's another thing that makes the emotion break so powerful is, I can show three clips on the screen for two seconds and the viewer gets it, so we don't need any more. All right, so then we move on. So does that mean all you need to do is whip out your camera and talk off -anticipantly?

[00:04:05] Speaker 1:
  Absolutely not, that's the worst divide out there. The creators who win with boring videos aren't winging it, they're applying four foundational things that most people miss. These are the 20 % of actions that drive 80 % of the results that make boring videos. Right, so that's kind of a payoff, and I literally paid it off straight away. Does that mean you need to whip out a camera? I just said no. And then I just continued to raise the curiosity by being like, they're doing these four things, what are they? Raise the curiosity again. And then I set up, so now I'm gonna show you what they are and how to use them, as well as why this generates more sales over the long term. So now they know, this is a transition, I set up as a transition, so they know, okay, I get why I need to listen to this now, and they're back in. And then what we do is we jump in with, okay, so the first four foundations of a boring video that's gonna grow your channel, harnesses something called viewer expectation.

[00:04:51] Speaker 1:
  Now, I have technically paid off something there, and you could argue that a viewer, a more experienced creator, would turn around and go, I know where this is going, cool, get to the point. But I also know that most people watching have absolutely no idea what that actually means. And in this case, because I know my audience, I can pay something off to create more curiosity. So the first foundations of a boring video will grow your channel, harnessing something called viewer expectations, and messing this up is one of the biggest reasons your videos didn't grow. So I want them going, hmm, think I know what that is, but it sounds important.

[00:05:29] Speaker 1:
  Or, oh, that sounds interesting. So I actually paid off what it was for the avatar I want, it's not a payoff. And then I say, so let me show you how this works. So it's another setup.

[00:05:41] Speaker 1:
  Which of these videos generated hundreds, so now I'm giving an example, where the answer is, blah, blah, blah. So I show them how it works with an example, and that's the emotion brick. And then I get here, and I've finished that explanation, and it's all paid off. And then I set up the next foundational element, so we've moved on to the next bit of advice, which is a transition, aka a setup.

[00:06:02] Speaker 1:
  They're designed so you can listen to the background. Okay, so the next foundational element that makes a boring video work is that they're not designed to be watched. They're designed so you can listen to the background when making dinner, or when you're going to run, they're basically podcasts. What I have done there is paid off too early. I've said the next foundational element is making, it's making, it's making, it's making, it's making, it's making it so you can listen to them. I mean, think about this. You're watching this going, yeah, I get it.

[00:06:27] Speaker 1:
  So I did intentionally pay off early, and say they're basically just audio experiences,

[00:06:34] Speaker 1:
  because I didn't need to explain anything else. I didn't need to give an example. I didn't need to use a motion brick. It's just such basic information that I know my viewers will be like, yeah, I listen to videos all the time.

[00:06:46] Speaker 1:
  So I just say that this gives the content an advantage,

[00:06:52] Speaker 1:
  and then I move on. So that is an entire point in one of my videos. It's pretty much all set up and then a tiny bit of information. But it's a critical part because it plays a key in one of the foundations I'm teaching, but there's just not much to say so I don't bother stringing it out. And that's a trap you have to avoid. A lot of people are like, we need to have lots of watch time on YouTube. We don't. We need viewer satisfaction. Go and look at the comments below my videos and the amount of people who are like, you get everything across so quick because we don't need that many words. And then we have the third foundation, reducing what's known as cognitive load. So again, this is a set up for the section. People are like, oh, and then I've paid off. It's about cognitive load. For exactly the same reason as I paid something off early. Because I know my avatar either understands that word a bit or has no understanding at all. So I thought, screw it. I'll pay it off early then explain it because they still want to know what the heck that even means. And then I say, so you've probably been told to give a ton of value in every video, blah, blah, blah.

[00:07:57] Speaker 1:
  And then that's the section done.

[00:08:00] Speaker 1:
  Now, I'm going to show you another early payoff I used here because I think a lot of people are scared that they're going to pay something off early. You just have to ask if you ever pay something off, just go, do they still want to know something or should I set something else up? That's it. So I say, so teaching isn't about dumping everything you know, it's about making key ideas stick. And the best boring videos do this in three ways. First, three, two, one. I'm going to show you how to do it. Pay attention to that. I'm a guy who always gives threes. First, they often tell a lot of stories. So I've paid off the feature. And do you know what?

[00:08:30] Speaker 1:
  This sentence here is now plummeting in tension. Stories teach people about spiking cognitive load, meaning someone could be cooking diner. Right? So I've kept it very short after that. The style of this video is basically a list of call. And I know when I'm starting a list of call, I'm not going to go in depth into every single thing I say. Really, the biggest point of it is to give people one thing they walk away with because they don't really listen to everything or take everything in. So in this section of the video, right, I'm like talking about three things they do. And I could have made an hour long video about this. But really, I'm like, let's just get the thing moving. So I say, first, they tell a lot of stories. I could have moved on and then go, then they use something called the rule of threes. And then they do something like, right. But I just decided to add a little bit more info there. And it's two lines. If the tension drops, the viewers aren't going to be going, get to that point. They'll tolerate a line or two. And then I say, and then they use something called the rule of threes. Now that's a payoff, but it's a curiosity spiking payoff because you're probably like, what's the rule of three? So we've re -hooked them with a payoff. And then I say, and then finally they use boring, almost childlike, simple visuals. I don't need to say anything after this. That's a payoff. And I know it's a payoff because I literally showed that at the start of my video. So I don't need this line. I could have just showed the visual and moved on. I wanted to make a point to go a little bit deeper on this. And because I would then showed visuals, which backed up what I'm saying, it gave them an idea as to what I mean, right? So I'm talking about childlike, simple visuals. I re -bring this in. So again, it's just a decision. There's no wrong or right here. All I know is I've paid it off. So I'll bet flipping set something up quick because the curiosity is going to be dropping. And then you can see it's a few lines with a bit of visuals and I go, and that moves us onto the final foundation to get results with boring videos. And I think it's one of the most underrated secrets of success.

[00:10:28] Speaker 1:
  So that's another setup.

[00:10:31] Speaker 1:
  And then basically I unpack it here. Hamza in particular was a master of this. So I show an example and here I'm dragging out the payoff. So I show the example before I say what it is, right? All I'm saying is this is one of the most underrated secrets of success. And I'm not going to tell you what it is yet. Have a watch this video, then I'll explain it after.

[00:10:51] Speaker 1:
  I play the clip and then I still don't say what it is. I say, so when you make videos, do you worry? What if someone argues with what I say in the comments? What if people don't believe me? So here I'm intentionally trying to log out the video now and keep them curious because they've played a clip. Now they're going, right, tell me what it is. And then I'm setting up the problem they have. And then I say, when you think like this, it comes across and I'm basically starting to unpack the payoff very slowly. So when you think like that, it comes across in a way that you present and the words that you say, and this massively impacts your own credibility. So for example, if you say maybe this will work for you and now I'm slow, the viewers slowly starting to understand, ah, I get where he's going with this. Or if you can't get amazing results, that lack of certainty will wreck your credibility. Whereas if you switch your words to, so this whole section is a really drawn out flipping payoff, but, but Ed, why did you decide to do that? Well, because I thought of a very easy way of doing it. If I'm totally honest, half the time I pay something off earlier and move on. Cause I think I can't think of anything creative to make this point, just move on to the next one and maybe make the next one a bit more creative.

[00:11:57] Speaker 1:
  So that's another thing you're going to go through that too. And I know a lot of you are like, how do I make every single point super creative? Like I don't do that. We skip, we focus on some, we move on because we've got to get these bad boys out. Right? So then I just summarize it as a slight payoff. I've unpacked all this stuff from Hamza. And then I just. I just say this line to finish it off and that's it. So if you're going to get anything from this is this don't worry if you pay something off early, if you pay something off early and then you keep explaining it, that's a problem. If you pay something up early and then you instantly set up something else, you've re hooked him. It's fine. So we just never want to have nothing left in the viewers brains that they don't want to know the answers to. And as you might've picked up from talking, this is this is a drill, but here's the thing. talking about this you get better at this by working with your clients and getting to know your viewers because i know you guys quite well because i spend so many hours in discord and i hear the questions so i'm just writing to you and this is another thing about really understanding your avatar and not trying to solve too many people's problems and just positioning around one problem right we can't possibly get to understand hundreds of different people so i'm writing to a very particular person and then i'm saying would they understand the meaning of that word and make it a payoff no cool i'll keep educating if the answer is yes i'll set something else up
