[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, so let's get into the system for writing intros. And you've got two options here. Option one, you just write yourself using the framework I've given you in the video planner section and the checklist. And you start by following the intro structure that you've learned. So the hook, the problem or result, the setup, and the transition. And then what you do is you just run your script through this checklist. Does it match what the thumbnail and title promised? Does the hook create curiosity in under five seconds? Have you poked a relatable problem or result? Did you clearly tell the viewer what they'll get? Did you show why you're credible? Did you smoothly transition into the first point? Is the intro under 30 seconds? Under 15 is ideal. And then once you've written it, what you want to do is head over to intro bot in the custom AI and say, this is my title. And you write your title. And then you say, can you give me feedback on this intro? And what intro bot is going to do is it's going to predict your viewers' expectations. Like you can see here, based on the title, it's going to check if your intro hit those expectations. It's going to give you feedback based on the checklist. And it's going to offer a, rewritten version of your intro. Now, the next step after this is you take that intro and you put it into guardrails and you say, can you give me feedback on this intro? And I know this feels like another step, but check this out. Guardrails is going to make sure the intro is positioned towards those three key problems that we are building our entire channel around that your viewers care about. It's also going to suggest credibility lines based on the backstory you've written about yourself in your brain. And it's going to help tweak the tone. And alignment to fit your niche. Again, don't blindly accept what it gives you. Think, edit it, make it sound human. And if your version hits the key problems and avoids the mistakes, you don't have to use the AI as you can stick with it. Now, please do not monkey brain this.

[00:01:44] Speaker 1:
  If the AI version is better, that's absolutely great, but present it out loud. I mean, it doesn't sound like you. Edit so it sounds like you. Don't just copy and paste it and be lazy and be like, that'll do. Option two, you just let the AI draft for you. So if you want to go fast, do this. Open intro bot and say, here's my title. Write the title. Can you write me an intro? It'll give you three versions. Then just pick the one you like. Run it through guardrails for more feedback. And then make small edits to personalize it. And that's it. Now, I still write my intros manually, but this is a really fast way to get you over that initial kind of like thinking hurdle. You're like, how do I start this thing? And it's going to help you stay short and very clear and focused. And some final notes on writing intros for members. If you want feedback from us, what you want to do is you want to put your intro in a Google doc and then make sure the link is set to anyone with the link and comment. If you forget, you're going to get a message from us saying, please make this doc open for access. And that's going to waste a lot of your time. But also, please don't paste five AI generated intros that you just slapped up as quick and go, which one is it? Which one is your best? Expecting us to do all the work, pick your favorite, edit it and submit one. If you send too many, I'm just going to say pick one and we're going to lose all that time and go through the process again. The process is here to make you better, not just faster. And it's not here to enable you to be lazy. So use the tools, but do the work and you will be able to write great intros without needing much help from any of us pretty flippant soon.
