[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  So you know that getting a click is what starts this whole system off. And if your thumbnail doesn't match what your audience expects, even if your strategy is great, this isn't going to work. And that is why thumbnails matter a lot. But the real question is, how should you make yours? And the truth is, you've got a few different paths. And the right one depends on your current skill level, your time and your goals. So instead of giving you one answer, I'm going to walk you through options like a decision matrix. So let's start with option one. So option one is you basically learn photography and Photoshop. This is the highest effort route. And James and I, we have made a gigantic thumbnail photography and Photoshop course. It's detailed and powerful. But for most of you, it is probably overkill. Unless you want to become a designer or you want to get really good at Photoshop photography. It's just not a 10x move doing it this way. It will take you weeks and you won't be posting until it's done. So if you want to go all in on the craft, that's great. It's there. It's there for you. But if you're just trying to get a few clicks, I would hold off on that option. So then option two is use AI to generate thumbnails. Now, this is faster. You can get pro level looking photography with no experience at all. But there are some trade -offs. So the first is you are still going to need to edit these. And if you don't have Photoshop and you're using things that don't allow you to edit in kind of a new detail, you're going to be holding yourself back. But also AI sometimes gives you weird hands or extra thumbs, or an odd face, and it can make you look a bit cartoony. And the thing that sucks about that is some audiences hate AI generated images because it feels fake. It doesn't feel authentic. And that's actually the reason I stopped using AI because I wanted to have a more authentic tone in my content. So it can work, but it's not perfect. And then option three, use photos of yourself and you keep everything super simple. So this is what I do now. You basically bad shoot a set of photos in one session. And you. Change your expression in each of them like this and your pose and your lighting. And then you have props and things that might relate. And then all you do is you reuse the same photos over and over again. So you can see here, same face, different color, t -shirt, same pose, next one, slightly zoomed in. And people don't really spot that you're using the same things over and over again. So that saves a lot of time. Now I do then go to edit these in Photoshop myself, but doesn't take long. And it also means I'm not reinventing the wheel every time. And they are pretty simple. And then option four. Is you outsource this. So if Photoshop overwhelms you or your designs aren't getting clicks, you hire someone to edit them. Now in the outsourcing module in the advanced sections, I'll show you exactly how to do that. But if you're hesitant to spend money on this, you need to ask yourself if it takes me three hours to make a thumbnail. Is that a 10 X move? The answer is no. I'm telling you now it's not.

[00:02:49] Speaker 1:
  So if you hire someone out, you can then spend those three hours on something that's actually going to grow your business. So you basically just want to pick one of those options. And master it. And one more thing. Members, when you submit your thumbnails for feedback, we're going to be honest with you. If it's not strong enough, we're going to tell you because it could waste a huge amount of your time if no one clicks on your videos. And for those of you who are new to this sort of thing, this is going to be one of the steepest learning curves in YouTube. And we're probably going to send you back to remake them over and over again. But once you get a system and you get the practice in, it's going to speed up massively. So don't beat yourself up or don't feel like you feel this is behind. A lot of people come into this, realize the importance of thumbnails and go, wow, it takes me just as long to do the thumbnails. As the video. But that is actually an important part of the process. We will get you through it so long as you don't quit. OK, so now don't do anything. Just go and watch the next phase. I'm going to teach you strategy. And at the end of that, we're going to come up with three or four ideas and keep pushing you.
