[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, so because you don't have an email system set up yet, we're going to build you a very simple one. And really our goal is to get your list to 300 people before we even bother sending them a single email, as there's not really a huge amount of point sending a weekly newsletter at this stage. So we're going to keep this as simple as possible. And here's what your MVP, minimum viable email system version is going to look like. You're going to create a signup page of a simple form. Then anyone who signs that form will get tagged. So they're saved to your email list. And then you will just automatically, with your software, send a welcome email that delivers a welcome and a soft pitch. That is literally all we're going to do right now. I did this exact thing for years, nothing more fancy, and it got me to like $60 ,000 a month. So you don't need to overthink this right now. This is our first step in you collecting emails. And later, once you have more people on that list, we're going to build bigger systems. So like I said, we're not going to email these people regularly until you've got around 300 subscribers on the list. And you don't even need to send a week or any email to this list. We just want to collect them right now. All right. So once you hit that number, that's when we start adding more nurture emails and scaling your system. Now, you're going to need an email platform to make this work, but don't overthink it. They all pretty much do the same thing. So here's a few options. People use GoHighLevel. More advanced, perfect if you have or you want a sales team later. ActiveCampaign, it's very good for email. It's like a specialist in that, but it can get expensive fast. Kajabi and Kartra. Lots of my clients use Kajabi. Kajabi. You also want like a course hosting and funnel pages built in. Both of those will probably fit your needs. I use Kartra. It's a little bit clunky, but I've had it for five, six years now. To be honest, it doesn't matter which one you get started. They're all as bad as each other for different reasons. The goal is to get you moving, not to spend hours hunting for this perfect tool. So the first thing you need on your signup page is just a headline. The headline just needs to set up the benefit of joining in a very short sentence, like explode your profits with less work, or boost your personal brand and internet fame with my next level strategies. Now, because we're not going to email it every week to start or hardly at all, don't say we're going to do it weekly. And if you're struggling, use the AI prompt I've got, where you say the reader of my emails want to insert the big goal, and their biggest problem is insert the problem. Write five short landing page headlines to encourage them to sign up. And really the format that we can use is get result they want without problem they have. Then we want a sub headline. It's just support. It supports the main headline. And all it needs to do is address potential objections. So you could say, you know, join fitness fanatics shaving hours off batch producing their weekly gym food with my previously unreleased tips. Something like that. So I've got another AI prompt, which you can just copy and paste, and I'll leave it below the video, and you can help it get you, and it will help pick you a sub headline. But after that, all we then want is a form with a name, an email. And that is it. We don't want anything more right now. Just as simple as possible. And then in the welcome email, you simply say hello. Thank you for signing up. As soon as I have something incredibly useful for you that will help you achieve whatever the result they signed up for, I'll send it straight to your inbox. P .S. If you're serious about solving whatever the problem they signed up for is, click this link to learn more how I can help you accelerate that. Basically, it's hi, welcome. Thanks for signing up. I'll send you stuff based on what you signed up for. P .S. Call to action. Work with me. Just keep it very short, very simple. Only a few lines, and that is all. And don't expect a huge amount from this right now. It's just the basics to get us going. Because once we've really, all we want is that email list built, so that when it hits 300, and we do start sending emails more often, and we do start promoting to it, we can get some sales kind of straight away. So that's it. You're going to pick a tool. Then you're going to build the signup page, and you're going to add the welcome email, which I've put a template below. Just fill it out and adapt it to yourself. Then you're going to link that below every video, and in your About Us, along with your offer. And we can move on fast. In phase seven, we might want to come back and revisit this.
