[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay sexy peeps, it's time to make a flippin' video. Now, below this video you're watching right now, what you're going to find is a list of instructions that you can just follow step by step for this process. But let's start this whole thing off with the golden rule for making your demo video, and it is this. The enemy of success is not failing, it's lack of taking action. So what I want you to do when you're producing this demo video is anytime you catch yourself going, but if I say that, will it wreck retention? What if people don't like this? Just say, YOLO, who cares, and keep going. Because nobody dies if you post this video and it's not perfect. Okay, so now you know our golden rule, let's do a quick overview of the video creation system that we're kind of going to use for every video we make. And it looks like this. It's beautiful, isn't it? So the first thing you always do is you start by coming up with a title, and then you come up with your thumbnail. And if you ever do a script first and then try and make a thumbnail and title after, I'm going to come to your hands. And I am going to stick this so far up your ****** until ******, and then I'm going to pour it up there until people mistake you for a fountain. Sorry, one sec, something wrong with my camera. But why is it so important that you always do your thumbnail and title first? Well, all jokes aside, if you don't do it in this order, you're about 80 % more likely to make a video that doesn't get traction, because we have to work out how to make our idea clickable before we make it. And if we can't, we don't waste time making it. The click is the start. The click is the start of the sales system. So we can't do it in any other order. We then build the intro, plan the content, the script, and everything else around what might get us that click. Now, the next phase is going to go into way more details on packaging, but the rest of the system works like this. So you plan the title, plan the thumbnail, then plan the content, write it, produce it, post it, measure it, learn a lesson, and then take what you learn into another video. That's it. So now let's move on to our demo video and start with step one, the title. So we're going to go deep on strategy and ideas, and then we're going to go into the idea generation later. But for our demo, I just want you to pick one of these proven formats here.

[00:02:03] Speaker 1:
  I X and learned Y, e .g. I scaled 1 ,000 marketing agencies and learned this. Or X lessons about Y that X, so that could be 20 lessons about guitar solos that turn beginners pro. I wish I knew this before I started X. That could be I wish I knew this before I started investing. X beginner lessons every Y should know. That could be 20 beginner lessons every tattoo artist should know. Just pick one of them. Don't worry about it too much. Now, if you've got really strong credibility and results, the first option is fantastic. And then the only other thing you need to do here is try to keep your title under 55 characters. But don't get worried if it's 56. This is just practice. Then step two, we're going to make our thumbnail for it. Again, whole more advanced process on this coming up. But for this video, I just want you to try out my favorite thumbnail strategy of all time. It's called cognitive dissonance. Now, this is the first type of image strategy I ever think of for every video I make because it's so powerful getting a click because it basically challenges what your viewers believe to be true. Like these examples you can see on screen right now. I mean, come on, you're thinking, why shouldn't I buy a house, right? And these videos absolutely slapped for views, which is Shenzi for performed well indeed. And all you do is you simply add text to your image that says stop doing X or do this instead. Now, the way I come up with these, I think to myself, what's the thing most of my clients do that's totally wrong and they never showed?

[00:03:28] Speaker 1:
  And then that text usually becomes apparent. Anyway, once you have that text idea, which isn't easy and it still needs to work with your title, I need you to pick from one of these two. So if you are an experienced channel, I want you to reuse an old image and now add your text on it. We don't want you to whack up a totally new random thumbnail style or even take new photos. This is just about speed. And if you are a newer channel, I want you to take a fresh, just very clear, simple photo of yourself and add text beside it using whatever image software you currently have. And just make sure you keep it simple. And then I want you to make a second version of that same image, but change the text to a result like this. So it could be 10K subs in 30 days, could be 3X leads in 30 days, could be win more games. And the reason I want two right now is because we're going to use YouTube's thumbnail split tester when we post it to see which one performs best for you as our first little measurement test. So that's it. Now don't forget below the video there are step by step instructions to follow. Just in case you're going, I can't keep up. All right, step three is you get feedback on your thumbnail. So you do this by going to the thumbnail feedback bot in the custom AI and just putting your image in and saying, give me feedback on this image, please. What it's going to do is it's going to check the basics, the big design mistakes that are really common, and it's going to flag things that it might deem as kind of needing improvement. Now, keep in mind, this isn't about perfection. It's not about actioning its advice right now. So it's just really about learning the process. Now, if you like, you can make the changes that it says. If not, just move on. Don't overthink this and get caught up in doing a mountain of work. We just need to get this bad boy posted. Now, if you are a member, you then submit your demo for human feedback in the packaging feedback channel like this. And what I want you to do is write, can I get feedback on my demo video, please? And then put the title like this and then put the first thumbnail in, hit enter. Put the second thumbnail in, hit enter. What I need you to do is post one image at a time so they're easy for us to see from like a bird's eye view. Otherwise, it looks like this and we can't. Now, I do need to state this is not the ongoing feedback submission process. Just this demo one. The coming modules are going to teach you the more advanced system. But all I need you to do is to make sure you say this is a demo video. So the team and I don't go giving you black belt feedback tips. They're going to totally overwhelm you whilst you are still a white belt. All right. So before we move on to how to plan this video and write it up, now seems like a pretty good time to show you why I chose this style of video as our demo video. And it's called a listicle. So firstly, a listicle is one of the most proven formats on YouTube. They have worked for a lot of channels and in loads of different niches since the beginning of time. And the cool thing about them is they're a little less complex to make because they're basically just a series of unrelated points. So there's no wrong or right order to your information technically. So for example, a five mistakes video, that's a listicle. A seven lessons learned from freelancing video, also a listicle. Our demo video listicle style is really fast to make too because this video is built from your own lived experience. So you don't have to do anything else other than just spew out what you already have up here in your head. It's also great because you can then easily turn this script into an email, a community post, or a social media post. Which means you're going to get more return on the time you put into it. But most importantly, it uses the three foundational blocks of great scripting. And these are blocks we're then going to add more complexity to later on so you can hit black belt level. Alright, so now let's move on to step four. We're going to start planning this thing. And all I want you to do is block off 30 to 60 minutes. I want you to tell your family if they disturb you during this time, you're going to barbecue the dog. And then I want you to write 20 very short lessons you learned that relate to this video. And then I want you to write a little bit to your title. But don't write more than one very short sentence for each one. So you can see my example on screen right now. This is when I did it. And I'll link to the actual final video below as the full thing might inspire you. But you can see I've got stuff like your hard work will pay off. Stick to the plan. The people you admire will eventually find your videos. Practice writing hooks every day. And that's kind of it. It's simple, right? Now the first few lessons, they're going to feel tough for you to come up with. But once you get them going, they're going to start to flow more. Now, if you get into the flow and writing them feels easy and you hit 20, just keep writing until it stops feeling easy or until you hit that final 60 minute mark. Because we can then pick the best ones from the list and we can always reuse the others in another video, email or post if this one does end up doing well. All right. So pause the video and just do that route. 20 short lessons. Again, don't overthink this. Just get it done. All right. Welcome back. You didn't do it, did you? You're thinking, I'll watch the rest of the video. First, and then I'll come back to that. Naughty. Anyway, step five. Now I want you to do is remove any lessons from that list that are very similar because we need each one to feel unique. And it's very likely that some of yours are pretty much the same set in different words. So to do that, just copy your list, throw it into chat GPT and ask it to remove any that repeat or are very similar. And then I want you to ask it to group the random list into categories. So this will stop your video jumping from lessons. That maybe feel super unrelated each time and group them together in a way that will be easier for our viewers to follow. Again, don't overthink this. Just get the video done. Now, if you don't have AI to do this for you, because the one in the course isn't really designed for that, just do it with your real human brain. Okay. So that moves on to step six. So what we need to do now is I want you to think of a story that taught you each lesson. And I want you to write it as one sentence above the lesson on your doc. Now that's important. It needs to be above the lesson. Like this, not below. You'll see why in a minute. Now, the story could be about when you learned the lesson or when a client of yours did. So here's an example of mine. So my story is I had 2000 subs and people mocked me for trying to teach, but I stuck with it. And years later, some of those people were in my DMs asking for my help. And then the lesson is your hard work will pay off. Stick with it. Now, before you go and do this, I need to show you how to write a story in just one sentence. Because simplifying this and keeping it simple is not going to help you. Keeping it brief is very hard, but this is the awesome skill to build up right now. So the trick is to write your story like this. What I want you to do is start with the problem you had that the lesson solved. Then say one action you took that solved it. Then say the outcome. So can you see on my example here, the red is the problem, the orange is the action, and the green is the outcome. It really can be that basic. If you want, pause it and give it a read. And whatever you do, don't expect this to be easy. Simplifying is hard, but it is the name of the game on YouTube. Okay, so step seven, just make a copy of that list. And one of them can become the email you then send or post to social media. That's it. Congratulations. You've already completed your first bit of content. In the end, I actually went and taught each lesson and I made them into a tweet and different community posts. So you have potentially just written 20 days of content there too. Now step eight. And what we're going to do is we are going to write the intro for your video script. So the first thing I want you to do is watch the intro I made for this exact video type, which performed really well. And then I'm going to help you turn my intro into your intro. I had parasites from filming this. You can see the iron deficiency around my eyes. Too much info. Enjoy. Did you think growing a YouTube channel was going to be easy? I did. And I made over 300 YouTube videos and eventually generated millions of views. But my gosh, was it such a grind. And I really wish I could have done things smarter to speed up results. So to help make growing your business's YouTube journey. 10 times easier. Here are 40 brutal truths about growing a business's YouTube channel. I wish I'd known a lot sooner. Okay. So to help you do your first intro really fast and easy. I made that intro into a template that you can use and it works like this. I put it on screen. Do you think topic was going to be easy? I did. And then you just want to insert an credibility building thing. So I said I made 100 videos or work with clients or spent two years doing something. And eventually I and then insert the result your viewers want. So I said, grew my channel. But it was a grind. I really wish I'd known how to do it smarter. So to help you make whatever their desired outcome is, put that in 10 times easier for you. Here are the amount of things you're going to tell them. I wish I'd known about whatever the topic is that would have saved me a ton of time. So all you have to do is take that template, which is below the video and just fill in the gaps for your own topic. And then present it out loud before you shoot it just to make sure it flows. Now, you're going to need to use some common sense here today. OK, if you hear it back and you think to yourself, hey, on a second, this intro doesn't sound right or it could be confusing. Edit it. This is just a template. It's not something God handed to me one morning as the ultimate holy template that will fit every single situation ever because that's in the advanced modules. All right. So now it's time to take a little task break so that you can rest your weary typing fingers because you need to understand why the way we're making this is insanely powerful. Well, it all comes down to this. People remember how you made them feel more than what you said. So that little story you wrote that creates an emotional reaction, a feeling, a memory. And then the little lesson that follows that gives them the logical step. So when you combine these two things, it basically makes people go, oh, that makes sense. I think I can do that. And when they think like that, they're more like to action your advice. And when people action your free advice and get a result, that is the thing that impacts your business. And your channel and creates fans. So the great thing about these listicle videos are it's just intro emotion with a story logic with a lesson, emotion, logic, emotion, logic, like 20 times over making this the perfect practice ground for everything else we'll build on later. Because the emotion logic framework is what makes amazing content. And you're going to start to spot it all over the place on the good creators now. So now we're going to turn your plan into a good one. So I'm going to start off by going into a script using the emotion logic structure I've been showing you. And to make this easy, I'm going to show you two real examples from my own videos. So you can see exactly how this works. So first up, here's what one of my lessons look like as a plan. So story, I used to get bullied by trolls. So I wasted time fighting them, but eventually realized it was a massive waste of time. And then the lesson was don't reply to trolls. So now what I did was I fleshed that out into more of a script because we can't just do that over and over again. It'll feel a bit too much. It'll feel too fast paced for the viewers. So I'm going to put the script on screen and read it out. See if you can spot when I start and finish the emotion section. And then when I hit them with the logic. And I also want you to see how I padded out this line become a chunk of a script. So it's this. Lesson number five. I was called a joke for years in the comments under my videos. It really made me want to defend myself to show the trolls I wasn't a joke. So I'd spend ages crafting replies. I'd look at the clock and realize half an hour had gone by. Then I'd post the reply. And still feel bad. Lesson number five is to stop trying to come up with replies to hater. You're going to get a ton of them. But every second you waste is a second you could have spent on a task that gets you closer to your goal. So that's it, right? So let's just have a look at this. So this in red. That was the emotion as it was the story that hopefully made you feel something. Possibly because it felt very relatable. So you were sitting there going, that's exactly how I feel, which is keeping you hooked. And then in the green, that's the logic. And it's the actionable lesson that the viewers can follow. Okay, so now I'm going to go one layer deeper just to show you what's inside the emotion brick. So remember early on I colored my story so it looked like this. The red is the problem. The orange is the action. And the green is the outcome. This is still exactly the same in my story in the emotion brick. You see that? So like pause if you want to have a look. Then once the outcome is done, we switch to logic and just give the lesson. That's it. Over and over again. Problem, action, outcome. That's the story complete. Then give the lesson. Now earlier on in this video, I said I was going to teach you the three things that are incredibly powerful and make up every script. So let's move on to the third one now. And it is this. You see this little bit of script where it says lesson number five. It's actually a very important part of the script and it's known as a transition. So one of the jobs of a transition is to signal movement so viewers can understand where one point ends and another one doesn't. So this is where the transition begins. Now we're going to go much deeper on them in the coming phases. But for now, this is all you need to do to make sure viewers feel like they're progressing through what you promised at the start. 20 lessons. Because without them, they're going to feel lost and they're going to get very confused and they're going to go get to the point because you don't make it clear when one's ended and one's begun. Now that might sound obvious, but this is honestly one of the biggest mistakes on YouTube. So now I want you to do is go and write every point. So it's a little bit more padded out following that exact same structure every time. And do not worry one bit if it's perfect or working or might put your viewers off. We just got to get this one done. All right. So now you've got your intro, the body of the script. Now we need to end this thing. And what I want you to do is I want you to think of any video you already have on your channel that might be relevant to your new positioning. And then what we're going to do in our script is make it sound like the video they've just finished watching will not be effective. If they don't watch the next one, which we're going to point out in the end screen. So you're basically saying to people, although all of these lessons that I have just taught you incredibly powerful. If you don't know how to fill in the blank, then none of them are going to work. So watch this video next where I'll show you how to solve that new problem so that you can get the result you want. Now, if you don't have a video to pass back to, don't worry. Just ask them to subscribe instead. And do not. Whatever you do. Don't point them to a video that you've not made yet because you're going to say, click this video and it won't be there. And whatever you do, don't explain that it won't be there, but you'll put it there another day because they don't care. They ain't coming back. All right. So get that end screen video now. And in the next videos, we're going to have a little look at filming and editing. And then you are going to post that. And then after that, we're going to take this whole thing that I've just taught you next level. We're going to go next level on strategy, advanced scripting, planning, writing, AI measurement. It's going to be flipping epic.
