[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, most people will never grow a YouTube channel, despite putting more and more effort into it, because they never look at their YouTube pipeline and ask, where's the block stopping the water from flowing so that it can get to the marketing and the offer? And what they do is they just keep making videos in the hope that it will fix itself, but it won't. And then 10 weeks later, they blame the viewers, they blame YouTube, they even blame poor old Ed and his system saying, but I wrote the script in the way he said and my pipeline didn't fill up. And after eight videos, they go back to posting videos on TikTok that the good people of Sierra Leone can't get enough of watching. When all they needed to do was stop and look at their pipeline and find the real reason there was no progress. And then once they've discovered it, learn the lesson from it and then take it into the next video. So basically all we need to do to get results is to learn one lesson from every video so we can fix the bottlenecks. So in this phase, I'm gonna train you to become someone who can see the reasons their videos didn't perform. But not only that, I wanna train you to get, so excited by flops that you're actually happy when they happen because you'll look for the reason, you'll fix it in the future and you will actually level up as a result. I'm also gonna show you how to measure videos after you've launched them and a way to measure that will grow your business too. And I'm gonna show you how to use AI to work out why a video performed or why it did not so you can get super fast insights. Now, before we move on, there is one thing I have to ask of members. I've had people email me four months into this going, Ed, I'm doing everything you said and I'm not gonna do it again. I'm not getting any more views. So I look at their channel and I go, this person is doing nothing I've told them to do at all. They think they are, but they just can't see the massive bottlenecks that I can. So I usually return and say, hey, sorry to hear that. Any reason you didn't come to me or any of my team of pros in the Discord after every video you posted that didn't hit your expectations and say, why is this happening? So we can point it out to you and stop you making the same mistake over and over again for 10 videos like you've done. Nobody has ever replied to that message. Because I was being lazy, Ed. We have 13 hours a day of Discord support right now. We have four to five hours of live calls a week. That is 95 hours a week. You can get feedback and help. Spotting issues yourself, it's very hard. Spotting them when you've got multiple civil play buttons, 2 million words of written scripts, hundreds of videos produced, years of obsessing over YouTube and having seen it all means it's not really that big a deal for me. And that's just me, bolt on all of my team's experience and not asking us to help you to learn a lesson. So I'm not asking you to help me. I'm asking you to help me. This is just dumb. And you paid for it. So, like, use it. Okay, so now move on to the next video where I'm going to turn you from a negative Nancy to a positive Pete so that you don't quit when you go backwards before you go forwards with all your results. And trust me, you're going to want to quit. As you can hopefully know by now, that's how this whole system works.
