[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Most people think the secret to making a video that's gonna grow a channel and a business is good information, good presenting, and like a fancy setup and studio. Now that stuff kind of helps, but that is not it at all. The secret is actually that you need to get your videos to become the perfect gift. So to explain, I want you to play a game with me called open or pass. All you do is you say open or pass when you see the thing that I show you. Pretty self -explanatory. Okay, so here is the first open or pass challenge. Would you like to open this gift? Now, some of you are gonna be like, yes, that looks flipping amazing. Others are probably thinking, no, that is way too flashy for me. I don't want that thing. And this is exactly what happens on YouTube. When your dream viewers see your video's wrapping paper, the thumbnail and title, and that's why this really ugly thumbnail got 1 .2 million views, and this polished one got millions of views too, because your video's packaging is not about being ugly or pretty at all. It's about what your viewer type is drawn to. So all we need to do to get a click is to work out what their favorite wrapping paper is, and then we just keep giving them that over and over again so we can scare off the wrong people and only get the right. That means your goal is to use the fail as fast as you can system to test different wrapping paper styles on your videos to see what gets opened, and then you just repeat what works. And if we have a quick look here, I'll scroll to the bottom of my channel and look. You can see that's exactly what I'm doing. The fail as fast as you can system where my thumbnails keep changing and I'm trying tons of different things. And then, oh look, something works. And now all my thumbnails look really similar because that is what is growing the channel and the business. So I'm not going to stop doing that. That would be absolutely insane until it stops working. And then I have to repeat this whole system again to find the new thing that works. And look how boring they are compared to my old channel film booth. My viewers wanted this. So that is the secret to packaging. We've got to make what your ideal buyers actually want to click on. Now, I'm going to pretend you said you want to open the wrapping. So we've opened it and inside is this. A Louis Vuitton box. And I'm going to ask you the same question. Do you want to open this or do you want to pass and hope for something better? All right. Now, some of you, they're going to be going, wow, Louis Vuitton. Yes, please. And others are going to be thinking this is tacky crap and you have no interest in it at all. Now, this box here, this represents your video's format. So a format is the structure that encases your information, aka the gift inside. And there are loads of different types of video formats. So we have deep dive, listicle, viewer roast, rants, challenges, interviews, stories, process, walkthrough, new, news, news. And what you need to understand is like thumbnails and titles, different viewer types prefer different formats. And if you build your channel around a couple of them that do really well, and then you try out a new one that your viewership wasn't growing on and doesn't really want from you, it's very likely that video will flop because it's not how viewers like their information boxed. So for example, Alex Hormozy, if you look at his formats, he figured out his viewers love long, really deep dive kind of videos. He just repeats these like hour long beasts. Now this channel is in the watch niche. He gets tons of views just talking about the latest news. And he uses the same format, same thumbnail every time. And it works. Then we have my mate Finzar. So he did this challenge video that blew up. So he repeated that format. Look, same thumbnail, same title, same style of video style. All of them performed amazingly. And then we have Whizzle Liz. Her thing that she just repeats over and again is like these tough love rants that are very heavily story -based. And our audience can't get enough of them. So just like with thumbnails, what you are going to do over time is test different formats on your channel to see what works and we do more of it. But I'll go deeper on that in another video. But also let me show you this. So these are my, my three top performing videos in their first 48 hours of existence. Look at that. Same title structure, same thumbnail layout, same format. These videos, when you watch them, do the same thing, but with just different words. And I'm going to teach you how to produce every single one of these formats in the writing module. So now let's play the final round of open or pass. So now I'm going to say that you opened the box. So let's have a look inside. All right. Look if it's on. I think this is going to be, expect what?

[00:04:27] Speaker 1:
  It's a tea bag. Are you kidding me? Now in YouTube turns, that final step is where most people lose their viewers because they promised them fancy wrapping in a Louis Vuitton box and they give them a tea bag. And what that really means is they don't match or exceed their viewers expectations inside the actual video itself. So if you want to grow a channel, you have to nail the information delivery so that it matches the viewers expectations after the video. So, of the click. And it needs to be the perfect payoff for the thumbnail and title as well. But I am not going to teach you just to match a viewer's expectation. Oh no, because let me ask you a question. What gift do you prefer? The one that you asked for or the one that you open from your partner and it was something you wanted since you were a child that you were just so gobsmacked, they got you. You tell them I'm giving you the good loving tonight. That is what we want our videos to do. Good channels, match expectations. expectations the next level channels that could sell sand to a camel exceed them and i mean just think about the last youtube video you absolutely loved you came away from it feeling like oh that was way better than i thought it was going to be right and that is the secret to this all and the cool part about this is when you get my system working when you know what wrapping paper they want when you know what format and box they want and then when you know exactly how to deliver on that and you see it works you just reuse everything you use the same thumbnail format the same title with just a subtle tweak use the same intro the same video structure sometimes i've literally taken an intro off a video and just put it on a new one because it worked and this is when ideating a video goes from three hours to 20 minutes and writing a script goes from days to hours if you honestly want to get more views and sales and save time then all you do is just give your viewers the gift they want over and over again so many people ignore this because it feels like we're not doing it right and it's not right and it's not right and it's not right and it's not we always have to reinvent the wheel but viewers who come to you for louis vuitton they don't go i'm getting bored of being given the world's most expensive brand can i have some uniclo please that would be mental if you don't do what i've just told you the system doesn't work so now you know what makes the perfect video let's move on to the next one we're going to look at everyone's least favorite part of youtube thumbnails
