[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  All right, so now let's look at how to get feedback on an intro or how to use AI to write them for you. So for the AI, you can give it your video's title and then you can give it the top three questions you think your viewers will have. And you can ask it to write an intro and it will do one that you must then edit to sound like you. If you don't give it those top three expectations, just the title, it's going to make them up for itself. And it's going to tell you what it thinks they are. Just always check that they seem on track. That's one way. Otherwise, you can write your own intro and then you can ask it for feedback in the intro bot. And I use this for my own content. It's very good. Just whatever you do, don't not use it. Then for getting AI feedback on scripts, what you want to do is go to point bot. This is not a bot that writes your script. It's a bot that gives you feedback that might suggest an optimized version. So here's how I'd recommend using it. Just cut out one point of your script, paste it in and ask for feedback. It's going to help spot early payoff, complexity and any areas of confusion. Now, the thing you need to understand is if I write an awful script, it's not going to give a great one back. It's going to give a slightly worse script. So you still need to put the effort in and the better the script you give it, the better it will make it. Now, the next option is pretty cool. Paste your whole script in and just ask it, why did this script flop? Even if you haven't posted it, just try it. It's going to give you ten potential fixes. Again, use your brain here. Some of these fixes might instantly make you go, oh, yeah, duh. Others might make you go, I'm not sure it's that big a deal. If you're going to make any changes based on it, just make the changes that feel the most obvious to you. And that's it. These these bots are amazing at leveling you up. So please, please do use them. All right. Now, if you remember, let's look at how you submit intros for human feedback in the chat. Here's how to do it without wasting our time. So put your intro on a Google Doc like this. Make the doc open access like this, meaning we can then tag comments on it. I'm going to say that again. Put the intro on a doc like this, then make the doc open access like this, meaning we can tag comments. If you forget to make it open access when you share that document with us, we can't tag these comments on it. And that's the best way for us to give feedback. Then the same is true if you want us to check out like one section of a script. Now, you've got to make sure that you're not going to be able to see the comments on the screen. You've been told we don't do full script feedback as part of this service. If you want that, you can hire one of the team externally to do it. But we can look at a section and it's the same thing. Get the script in the document, make it open access and then make it clear where in the script you want us to look. Ideally, you can just highlight a section red or a color. And that's it. And look, if at any time you're like, I'm not sure if I'm doing this right. Just ask. We honestly don't care if you put it in the wrong room. We'll just tell you where to put it next time. Like I've had people say I didn't use the feedback because I was so scared I was going to get it wrong. Why? I'm not a monster. Do I look like a monster? I'm a nice guy.
