[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  So pretty much everyone gets how YouTube works totally wrong thanks to the insane amount of information online that just isn't accurate or is confusing or is a distraction from only the things that matter and there's not really that many that do. So in this video, I'm gonna give you some clarity on how YouTube decides what to push, the three different types of viewers, what happens after you post, why good data sometimes means nothing and how YouTube works to grow your business. We'll follow it in the video after too. And then after this video, you'll see a little quiz which is gonna help you understand if you've understood this and if you fail it, I'm gonna remove you from the course. All right, so let's start with the very basics of how YouTube works. I'm only kidding, by the way, I'm not gonna remove you. All right, so what you need to understand is that YouTube isn't against you, but it's also not on your side. Really, all it cares about is the viewer and feeding them more videos that they like. If they do that, they keep them on the platform for longer and that's what makes them all their ad revenue and money. So to do this, it's created something called a viewer profile and you are gonna have one too. This is where it looks at your watch, and then it goes, okay, this person loves this channel about tennis. Why don't we push some more videos about tennis to them from other channels to see what happens there too? So their YouTube homepage would then have a bunch of videos about tennis on it and the same down the side of the videos that they watch too. But the problem we have is this, at the same time, it's also gonna test a lot of other videos from other creators it thinks that viewer loves too and then it's gonna score theirs and yours and the one with the highest score YouTube's gonna keep pushing to the viewers and more viewers like them and the one with the lowest score just stops getting pushed at all. So this is what makes YouTube so hard because if your viewers watch the biggest, most experienced channels in your niche that have 10 years of experience and a giant team of pros helping them with a ton of data on their side so they know exactly what to do to win a viewer over, you somehow have to get a higher score than them. So keep that in mind. If you're new to this or small, the Faroe Islands don't step out on the side of the island. They're a soccer pitch expecting to beat Brazil. So you need to be very realistic with your performance expectations. The thing is, how does YouTube score your videos? Well, it does it by looking at data which tells it how satisfied a viewer was with the video they just watched, which is incredibly dumb because I'm satisfied after a tin of tomato soup. If you wanna win here, we need to give our viewers their favorite meal every time that makes them so flippin' fat with information they sit there going, oh, I'm gonna burst. We're so good. And there's a lot of data YouTube looks at to work out viewer satisfaction. Things like, did they watch it all the way through, which is known as watch time? Did they click it when they saw it? And that's known as click -through rate. Did they hit like or comment or share it? The thing is, really, all of these distracting metrics boil down to one question. Did the viewer enjoy your video enough to keep watching YouTube? If the answer's yes, YouTube will show them more of your stuff and more people like them your stuff too. Okay, so that's how YouTube scores videos so it can work out what to push more and then what to drop. Let's go a little bit deeper now to look at the three different viewer types and how they massively impact your channel. So to start, you need to know this. When YouTube tests your video with a viewer, it's not just testing it with one viewer. It actually droops different types of viewers together into buckets and then tests the video with the people in that bucket to see how it performs with them. If it does well, it will push it to more people in the bucket who are very similar. And the simplest way to look at all these buckets is that there are three different types. There's fans. These are people who watch everything you do and have come back on a regular basis over the last six months. Then we have return viewers. These are people who have watched more than one of your videos. And then we have cold viewers. These are people who watch similar content but have maybe not discovered you yet. So when you post a video, YouTube starts by testing it with some fans. Now these are the safest group as they already know, like, and trust you, meaning they are more likely to click. They'll listen to everything, even if you waffle on. And they're going to hit comment and like a lot more. And if you get high viewer satisfaction with them, YouTube's going to push it to more people in the fan bucket. But if they don't engage, that is a big red flag and YouTube's going to stop pushing it to that entire bucket. It also tests it with return viewers in the same way. And then it will test it with cold viewers who are far riskier as they don't know, like, or trust you yet. They probably love your competition. So they're really not that interested in clicking on your videos at all. Meaning it's very hard to get them to watch and build that viewer satisfaction. Now, if these cold viewers respond well, which is statistically unlikely, YouTube's going to aggressively push your videos out to a lot more of them. And when you hit a cold audience, the channel goes fast, but only three in 10 videos on world -class creators ever do this. So we need to be realistic with our expectations, which brings us on to the most important part, the most understood thing on YouTube that causes so many people to waste hours looking at nonsense in their YouTube studio. So you've been told that you need to get a high click for rate on a video so that YouTube will push it to more people. But if that was true, why does this video with millions of views have a lower click -through rate than this one with thousands? Well, what happens to you is you're going to post a video and it's going to get the best data you've ever seen based on all of this stuff I just told you, but your views are going to suck. And that's because it performed well. With the fans who inflate your data, because they're more likely to click and watch for longer. But in this case, the cold and return viewers, they didn't really like it. So YouTube just stopped pushing the video at them. So the data you see only represents what the fans for in this situation, not the people who grow the channel. So it's confusing because this data looking bad often means more views because it's been pushed to so many more cold viewers who wreck it, but YouTube don't care because they can tell, that it's worth pushing to more still, which is just annoying, right? And that's actually why I ignore a heck of a lot of it. As you're going to find out in the measurement modules, because it's mainly nonsense. Okay, so now you know how it scores and serves content. Let's look at what happens after you post. Well, the most likely outcome is this. You're going to post and a few days later, the views are going to flatline and slow down, but does that mean it's game over? No, not at all. I'm going to teach you what to do in more details in the launch and measurement modules.

[00:06:26] Speaker 1:
  If this happens, even if you slow down a bunch, YouTube continues testing your videos across different devices, traffic sources, regions, viewer types, and times a day. What that can mean is if your videos get insane watch time on TVs, but not on mobiles, it could keep pushing it to TVs and completely drop you on mobiles. Or if your video doesn't perform on the homepage known as the traffic source browse, but it does down the side of videos in the traffic source known as suggested, it will push videos there more too. So YouTube basically tracks where videos are discovered known as the traffic source, as well as the device they are watched on and even locations to see if it should push it in different places and slow it down in others, which makes this even harder to track. Also, another thing to realize is that if a newer video does get traction, it can then bring old videos with it on the homepage or suggested down the side, as well as in the up next section. So just because an old video didn't perform doesn't mean it might not ever. But also sometimes the topic of an old video becomes relevant again, like new cycles and trends and seasonal events. And what that means is YouTube can then test it again so it can still get views. And just to stop you worrying about videos that have views that slow, we can still take control of the views ourself by pointing end screens at them. And you wanna know something crazy? My channel almost gets the same views from end screens as it does the entire traffic source search. So these are no joke. In fact, on Filmbooth, I generated 700 ,000 views just from people watching my end screens. So although a strong start when you post a video is what we all wanna see, don't forget that a video lives forever and we can do more to get it lots of views. But Ed, what if you're new and you don't have any fans or return viewers yet? What happens when you post a video? Well, you have to be patient because YouTube's gonna test your video with cold audiences very sporadically. And it's gonna test it with the wrong ones too, as it won't really get what you're about. So you're gonna see views jump and slam to a halt and your data won't be accurate. It's also gonna test your video with the wrong ones too, as it won't really get what you're about. So you're gonna see views jump and slam to a halt and your data won't be accurate. It's also gonna test your video with the wrong ones too, as it won't really get what you're about. It's also gonna test your video with the wrong ones too, as it won't really get what you're about. with the right kind of people, but because you're new or small and you need to level up a lot to compete on this stage, it's very likely you're gonna lose the battle with your experienced competition, pretty much most of the time. So if that's you, do not quit. You are at the hardest part of this because you are just not as good or better than your competition at making videos yet. Now, I'm gonna teach you how to measure things further down the line, but to summarize what matters, as you got a heck of a lot of info there, just understand this, YouTube buckets viewers into fans, return viewers, and cold viewers. It tests your videos with those buckets. If it sees high viewer satisfaction, it pushes your video to more people in the bucket. If it's low, it stops pushing. And then sometimes your data is gonna look really good, but the view's low, and this is because it only got pushed to the fans. And when your video blows up, this data looks crap because cold viewers wreck data. So with all of this being so confusing, here's how I look at it. Above average views for your channel equals good. Find the lesson. That's the why and repeat. Below average views equals find the lesson as to why and do not repeat. All right, so you now understand how YouTube works to grow a channel. Now let's look at how YouTube works to grow your business and the ways that different viewers will impact yourselves. So to start, let's just bring back this graph and remind you of how this works. So the whole point of this graph is basically 90 % of people are just gonna quit your topic because that's how it works. And we want to build a system that stops them quitting, but also warms them up here in the first 30 days so they become a fan and then want to buy our stuff. If we can build a system that does this, we'll get great results. And we do that by making tons of videos in the way that I show you so that people watch like 20 in the first 30 days and by getting into our email, so we hit them with more value and more sales and more simple communication that gets them over the line. All right, so now let's look at how different viewer types are gonna impact your business. So starting with the cold viewers. So when this video blew up here, we had a ton of calls, but the worst conversions of those calls we'd ever had. And I spoke to the sales guys and the team were like, Ed, half of them didn't even know why they booked a call or what this is. And that is because often the result of content getting traction with a new audience or going viral means it brings in much colder viewers, but less sophisticated viewers or idiots as you're gonna call them. Not only will they wreck all your conversions, but they'll actually sign up, they'll do your course, they'll instantly ask for a refund, they'll not turn up to your sales calls, they'll email you abuse, they'll complain, this isn't what I thought it was because they didn't read a single thing. And this means if you are hoping, this is just a game of blowing up videos to make sales, it doesn't work like that. The result of blowing up a video often has no impact on your business until a few months later when a small percentage of those people have remained, gone through the system and warmed up enough. Okay, then we have the fans. These guys are a lot nicer. They're the red hot viewers. And what I've found is if you just post consistently and try to make videos so good, people will like it, they'll buy them. We get way more of these people coming in and way better conversion metrics without having to get a huge jump up in views. But also because of that, the backend of the business is just way easier to manage too. I actually prefer this slow and steady growth because if your business isn't infinitely scalable, this is a much better way to grow. So this is where just posting a video once a week and not even worrying that much about trying to beat your personal best comes into play because each video just knocks a few more fans into our system. The other thing to realize about making money on YouTube is if you launch a product, all of your fans are gonna fly in and buy it. So your conversions and calls and sales spike and it all just seems really easy. But then a few months later, when all of your fans have bought, you end up going, why am I not earning as much now? And sales crash. So this is known as warm audience depletion. It's very common in organic marketing. So one of the jobs of our system is to try to stop this from happening. The thing is, if you focus on making your videos so good, people can't believe they are free, this makes depletion far easier to fight off. Now, one of the other things to note about these types of people is they say things to you like, you don't need a sales call. I wanted to buy straight away, but ignore them. Red hot fans don't realize 99 % of your market isn't like that. Then we have the return viewers, they're more casual. And for them, we need stronger sales and marketing to warm up. Some will buy easily, others won't because they might not have built up enough trust yet. So with this in mind, what we do is we're gonna use YouTube to make cold viewers hot and get hot viewers over the line by putting a link below every video to your email signup and to a link to your sales page too. The fans can then hit buy instantly and the other two types can then hit the email to get more value that warms them up and builds trust, which then gets them over the line. So basically if we boil YouTube down to its very simplest, all you need to know is this, you need to make videos that appeal to the cold audience so you can grow your channel and then follow the steps that I'm gonna give you to make sure every video is highly clickable and interesting to them so they come back and warm up. Then you get them to your email and you make sure they have easy access to your product links in those emails and you let them know you have an offer too. That is all I do to make multiple millions every year. But the secret to all of this is the free YouTube content. So do the quiz next and then move on to the next video where I'm gonna show you how to build a channel that brings people back and grows a business via something called positioning. So that's how YouTube works. Go and do the quiz to make sure you understand that and then move on to the next video. I'm gonna show you how YouTube works to generate you more sales and emails. And don't skip the quiz. I can see what you're doing in my analytics by the way. And I do spy on you.
