[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  Okay, interviews. So now I'm going to show you how to plan an interview using our template. So an interview is basically where you interview someone on your channel, believe it or not. Ideally, they have some next level info and your viewers are going to love them. So I was doing a lot of them, easy views, blew up like crazy. You'll see them all over the place as a very simple way of getting views. All right, so what are the pros of the interview? Well, well, easy to produce. That's it. They can kind of open up partnerships. So they're good networking. Like if you can get a big deal on your channel, the value is in the bit where you chat to them after the interview is finished. They can also bring new viewers to your channel because if I interviewed Casey Neistat, the Casey fans are going to come over and then a small percentage of them will probably stick around. Cons, I stopped making them. They just didn't make me any money. I was getting like 300 ,000 views and no sales because they don't raise your credibility. Just a host. So why would anyone want to buy your product when all of the credibility goes to the person you're interviewing? So the crap for sales and they're very heavily reliant on a great guest. Not that many people make great guests. It's hard being interviewed. Some of the ones I've been on have absolutely smashed it. Some have come off and I'm like, what on earth did I just talk about? So if you don't have a great guest, you ain't got a great video. Who should make these? Well, any level creator can. Creators who want to borrow credibility from others. So let's say you've got a knowledge gap. So mine in this course right now is sales. I just can't teach it because I'm, although I did sales training years ago, I don't feel like I'm qualified to teach people to do sales. So if I wanted to talk about that on my channel, I would reach out to a famous sales person and I would say, can you come on? Let me interview you about how to do sales. So that's kind of it. You're filling in the knowledge gap that you don't have that still serves your audience. Also, if you're looking to expand your next network and kind of showcase high trust. So let's say I get a really good deal. Mr. Beast on my channel. The fact that I have him on my channel, my credibility goes up, right? Because people are like, oh, wow, he got this really famous kid on the channel. So who likes watching these? Well, they're very popular. People who love behind the scenes stories and lessons or success paths really like this. Also kind of newbies topics because they're often heavily story -based people sharing what they did and they're very inspiring. So they get information for people who are a few steps ahead of them. The other kind of people who like these are people who are loyal fans of the guest and the other type of people who just listen. So this is one thing I'm very mindful of now is that actually most people in the education space are not watching the content. They're listening to it in the background. So this is why they're pretty good for YouTube because people have them on in the background. It gives us that really long watch time. So they're best used when you have a guest who has a story that's really inspirational or achieves something cool or a framework or result that solves the problem your viewers have. That's what I would say. And if I look at my top performing interviews, that's literally what they all did. They just shared the process and the story that got them a result. The secret sauce is to pick a guest who solves the same problem you do. So it's relatable to the audience. Plan. Everyone thinks interviews are just something where you just ask a ton of questions. No, you really need to plan them. And we do that in the same way as, well, I'll show you how to do it in a sec, but they are planning

[00:03:26] Speaker 1:
  your questions. You also want to keep in mind when you're planning your questions, what are the viewers here to learn, right? So we don't go off on tangents. Mistakes are when you have like no clear reason a guest is relevant. When you don't have a killer intro that hooks people and sets up the credibility of your guest, they're game over. When you kind of let the conversation drift and suddenly the person's talking about how they went skiing and you're like, oh, I love that place in Switzerland too. It's amazing. And the viewer's sitting there going, I didn't come for ski Sunday. I came here for how to bake a cake.

[00:03:56] Speaker 1:
  I'm a huge guest with no interesting backstory. I know it sounds harsh, but who cares? And the other mistake is thinking your big name guests will promote it. Nobody promotes the interviews they go on. It is mind blowing because when you are a guest on one, these things make your Stripe account go ping. I've been on some that have made me a hell of a lot of money. So I always promote them. I'm like, hit my email list, like check this interviewers out here, community. I post it on the community wall. I make sure people see the thing because it's me, right? But they don't think of it like that. So don't expect a big name guest to promote you at all. All right. So the strategy, your interview is all about your intro. Watch Dyer as CEO. They have these insane intros that just pump up the curiosity and the tension where you're like, give me the flipping intro. Give me the flipping interview. Give me the flipping interview. They're pretty amazing. So in your intro, you've got to ramp up the value a ton. You've got to show why they're credible, what amazing things the viewer's going to learn. So you need to promise a few things the viewer's going to walk away with. And then think of interviews. You're going to have to make sure that you're going to make sure that you're going to have a good interview. You're going to have a good interview. You're going to have a good interview. In the same way, emotion, logic, emotion, logic. So what you want to do is get your guest to answer your questions with a story and then unpack the logic. If we can do it that way, we can make this a much easier watch for viewers. Now, you can't turn around and say, look, you have to answer everything with a story because anyone who's not media trained is going to really struggle with this. But that's the name of the game is, can we get a really strong story out of them? And then get their steps out of them so that viewers feel inspired. It feels new and exciting. There's proof it works. And then we give them the intro. And then you point your end screen to a high performing video for sales views or leads where you're the expert. So I don't think you should link back to other interviews because let's say this video pops because you've got a big guest on. We need to then raise your credibility. So push into a video where you are the expert. So this is our structure. Intro, questions. But in an ideal world, we want this bit here to be the most important part of the video. Where they talk about how they had the problem and how they ended up getting the result. And then we can unpack the lessons learned along the way here or the steps of their framework. But most people will just ask random questions and stitch them together. And that can still work. But I think it makes sense to pull out the best stories. Now, the titles for interviews. What I would do is I would focus on the result your guest has or lessons, right? So how the guest went from, you know, poor to rich. This one mistake cost me a hundred K and what I learned. that's like a quote so focus on the lesson the result that your viewers want again these are just templates you'll need to research but don't put an interview with steve shule who no one's ever heard of before talking about something nobody ever cares about either like don't assume your guests know like or trust this person you want to lead with the incredible thing that they did which is why i covered andrew kirby's face here because if i put how andrew kirby's making youtubers money no one knows who that is well some people do if you're watching this andrew apologies i love you um but the man making youtubers retreat curiosity building 200k a month it's a big hook wow what is it so well casey's so flipping famous and so is davin goggins we can put them but it's very unlikely we're going to get them on our channel so if you're interviewing someone who isn't famous don't lead with their name thumbnails so use emotional facial expressions from the guest try to make it obvious it's an interview just think about this right viewer expectations if it looks like it's going to be an interview in the thumbnail with the mic and if you mike and someone's sitting there then that might be helpful although i didn't do it the title and the way i wrote it makes it clear it's going to be something like that and then use cognitive dissonance so basically a thumbnail that makes people go but i thought that was true why shouldn't i do that like putting don't buy a house results so showing a result the guest got or leading heavily with curiosity so people go how what why the intro follows our same framework the hook we then set up the problem the guest had then the result the guest got and we need to be like boom boom boom like credibility credibility credibility like really big up those results they got and then set up what you're going to cover in the video so if you would say not that they're going to show you how they overcame the biggest problem their simple framework for getting results every time and the one thing that's going to see technology picks things up it's not that you really have nothing if you're gonna get to the bottom high and Fi habit well just having a think and a simple focus in that MARK middle and FAI but you know what the heck is how I'm not the best at this and by my the best practice I teach physical fitness leadership big reason nobody ever gets results here. And then credibility and proof of guest as much as possible. And we need to make sure we match the viewer's expectations for the fundamental. So here's a snippet from one of my intros I'll break down, which I've color coded here. You can see the color code, right? So it says, this is Lou Levy. She built a system to make anyone rich online, even if they don't have a following. So my hook is basically a statement hook saying, you can get the thing you want without the thing you've been told you need. No, really, over the past few years, she's helped over a thousand regular people hit their first ever five -figure month online and has generated $24 million using it. And when I say anyone can use it, I mean it. This system even made a dog trainer $40 ,000 in a month following it. I was so impressed with the process, I asked if she'd share the entire thing with you. So today, you're going to learn how anyone can come up with an idea, create it, sell it, and make a ton of money online using it. You'll also discover why you should buy it. And if you're a fan of the system, you'll also discover why you shouldn't sell on -demand courses and the best way to make money with zero following. And then the transitions are your question. So it would then cut into, all right, Lou, so how did you discover this process? Or something like that, right? So the transitions each time are just your questions. So you can see here, we've really pumped up the credibility a ton. She's helped a thousand regular people, five -figure months, generated over $24 million, even made a dog trainer, which is kind of unusual, $40 ,000 a month. And then the setup is like, she's going to show you how you use it, and X, Y, and Z. I just pump up the value. So that's how you would write an intro for an interview. So let me show you how to plan this on our template. So we have our interview planner. Here's some examples. It's very simple. First, pick a guest. Needs to have achieved what your viewers want. Ideally, they're not shy and make sure they actually have good insights. Like you need to kind of know why they're a good guest before you invite them on. Set your goal. It's very unlikely you'll make sales from this. I'd optimize for views or emails, and then focus on driving your end screen to a sales -based video. Complete your thumbnails or videos. You need to do these before the interview. So if I go back to the Andrew Kirby one, I had a chat with Andrew before, and we were sitting there and I was like, can you just tell me what you've been doing? So he told me, and I was like, wait, so you're helping these people make hundreds of thousands a month for free? He's like, yeah. And I was like, boom, there's our title, The Man Making YouTubers Rich for Free. And then I said to him, right, this is our title. This is what we're going to build the interview around. Just keep that in mind when you're answering your questions. So people seem to think you can't do this before, but it actually makes sense to build your entire interview around your thumbnail and title and all the questions you ask so that you match and exceed those expectations. So then complete your thumbnail and title, work out your viewers' top three questions for your setup, plan your questions. Think about the problems your viewers care about. Think about asking questions that will get a story out of your contestant or participant. So for example, what was the moment you realized you needed to something? And what was the one thing that stopped you from solving it? They're going to turn around and go, ah, do you know what? The moment I realized was when I was doing this, I was doing this. The moment I thought my wife was going to be my best friend was when my wife had just left me.

[00:11:20] Speaker 1:
  It's never going to be a positive thing. It's going to be a juicy problem, which is what we want our story to start with. And then you write your intro, then produce it. So you can use Riverside. Riverside is a platform that I use where you basically send them a link and then you can record it, record in HD and then edit the interview. I edit the crap out of my interviews. I've had 45 minute interviews down to 10 minutes. I take out any question where I'm like, this isn't the best info. Yeah, I know. But it's always an issue, the best info, the best interview, the best interview. And so, Is this matching or exceeding your expectations? Is this waffle? Is this getting in the way of the next one, which is a great answer? Delete. So don't be afraid to cut stuff out. Diary of a CEO, their interviews are three hours, hour and a half sometimes. They cut out 50%. It's pretty common. And then upload and add your tracking link. And then you measure in the way that I teach you, which is to ask, did you hit your goal? If so, you repeat the lesson. If you missed your goal, you ask why and you avoid the lesson next time. Good luck.
