[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  If you want to grow and make money from YouTube, the first thing you need to do is make sure the three main parts of your pipeline are perfectly aligned. The first part is your channel, which drives the traffic to your marketing. Things like your email, your lead magnets, your email nurture sequences. And the job of this section is to keep people engaged, but also to introduce them to your offer. And then your offer is the final part, and that is the thing you actually sell. When all three of these are aligned under your umbrella statement, the I help X get Y, your traffic will flow smoothly between them. And the people who go from your channel to your offer will be the perfect fit. And this is how some people make like $25 ,000 from just a few thousand views. If one of these stages is misaligned, which is very easy to do, the pipe clogs. So if your channel doesn't match your offer and your marketing, you're going to attract the wrong people into it. If your marketing doesn't match your channel. Viewers are going to fill a mismatch and they're not going to interact. And if your offer is misaligned, people are going to come to it from your channel expecting one thing, but get given presented something completely different. So they won't buy. So any red lights in this pipeline creates a huge blockage. And unless we fix it, your views can't turn into income in the way that you'd want. So in this video, we're going to audit your channel, your marketing and your offer to see how they are positioned. And then we're going to use guardrails AI to help spot misalignments. And then at the end, I'm going to show you some tricks. Guardrails can do once you've got this all set up. And then once you've posted three or four new videos using the new system, we will then measure their results based on these adjustments in phase seven. And then that will show you exactly where any bottlenecks might still remain based on the new data you've got following the system. So how long should you leave this audit? Well, it could take half an hour. It could take you 10. It's going to be different depending on everyone's situation. But just take your time here and follow the steps. Really was a game changer. It was a game changer for me when I first did this. OK, so let's move into step one of auditing. So here you want to find the top three buyer problems. All right. So why are we focusing on buyers, not viewers? Well, when I first did this for myself, I realized that my channel was targeting different problems than my buyers cared about. And when I switched to make sure that the channel was more in line with what the buyers cared about, income went up a lot. And that's the thing on YouTube. Not every viewer is going to be the perfect fit for you. In fact, for some of you. Most of them probably are. So we need to optimize for the people who actually give us money, not the people who don't. But you might be wondering, hang on a sec. Why the top three buyer problems? Why is this different between the umbrella statement? You've got to position everything around. So think of it like this. Your umbrella statement is like the main storm you solve. But the storm isn't necessarily the problem, right? The problem you have in a storm is getting wet. The wind, the cold, the puddles. This is why we want to work out our buyers top three problems. Because those are the problems. Those are the pain points they feel. So for example, if you're a fitness coach, your umbrella statement might be, I help business owners lose weight with short workouts. And their top three problems they know they have might be, I don't have time for long workouts. I can't stay consistent. I tried diets, but I still can't lose weight. So let's work that out for ourselves. If you have clients already, follow this process. I want you to collect data from them. So hopefully at some point you've got them to fill out a form after they've bought from you. That says what their problems are. Or you might have cool notes. And if you do, download them all, drop them into guardrails AI and ask audit my business. And it's going to pull out the top three problems based on that data. Then you just want to manually check that. Now, if you didn't get your clients to do that, what I want you to do is email everyone who's ever bought from you a quick survey that says something like this. Hey, name, I want to help more people. And then put the result you want to help with. Could you give me 30 seconds to fill out this survey? I'll pick one person who fills it out and give them and then insert some sort of prize. Thank you very much. Your name and then link to a Google form. And ideally we want to be getting like 25, 30 plus people to fill this out. And if we can get that, we then do the same. We take that data from the Google forms. We put it into guardrails and say, audit my business. And it's going to tell you the top three problems, which you manually verify. Now, if you don't have enough client data, enough clients, or you can't do that, don't worry. Instead, what we're going to do here is we're going to. Take our best educated guess as to what these problems might be. And to help you with that, just answer these three questions. What do people complain about the most in your niche? What do they keep trying but failing to fix on their own? What's the number one frustration or pain point that's blocking results? And then take those three problems and put them into the brain here in guardrails. Now, you can do extra work on these two. You could go to Reddit, Quora. You could look at YouTube comments to try and establish these. But don't overcomplicate right now. An educated guess is good enough. We will build on this over time. Let me move on to step two, where we're going to check if your content's actually solving those same problems too in the eyes of the people coming to your channel. If you've got an established channel, here's what I want you to do. I want you to pick the top 12 outliers from the last two years. An outlier is simply a video that performed at least twice above your average views. Basically, you're looking for your top performers in the last two years, as long as they're still in line with the direction you want to take your channel. And just to be clear, an established channel isn't one where you've only got 20 videos or one random hit. You've got a lot of videos that have hit 55 ,000 views and the rest have like 500 views. That's not established. Established means you've been posting consistently for a while. You've got lots of videos pulling in thousands of views and you've been hitting those numbers for a while. Then what I want you to do is take those 12 outliers and write them on a Google Doc like this. And then I want you to space them out clearly and then take a screenshot of that. Make sure it's just the titles in the screenshot. So then once you've done that, go to the brain, add it here and then go back to Guardrails and ask, audit my channel. It's going to give you the top three problems it thinks your viewers care about based on those outliers. And the goal here is really simple. You ask, do those problems that is listed line up with what you believe your buyers problems are? Don't panic if they're a little different. That's very normal. It only really becomes a massive issue if there's a big mismatch. Now, if you're not established yet or you're repositioning your channel in a completely new direction, just skip that step for now. We're going to come back to it in phase four. And don't stress if you can't fill it out. It doesn't mean this course doesn't work for you at all. Still the perfect. We're just going to update this later. One other thing I might add is for me, my list of 12 outliers were not just views based because I have rev track. I can see which videos generate the most sales and email signups. So my list is a mixture of videos that perform well for the business and for views. Then step three, we're going to audit your offer. So all you do is you go to your sales page, drag your mouse down it, copy all the text, paste all the text into Guardrails and say, audit my sales page and then write down your score. If you don't have a sales page, don't worry. Move on. Step four, we're then going to audit your marketing. So you're going to go to your email signup or your lead magnet signup, and you're going to copy the text in the same way, paste it into Guardrails and then write audit my email signup page and then write down your score. And in step five, all we're going to do is spot the red light, look at the score and any advice it might give and ask, oh, do we have a problem there or not? But here's something you need to understand. AI is not perfect. This is a tool. It's version one of the tool as well. So I'll be improving it over time. But you still have a brain. So just don't treat this as gospel. The real value of all this information is it explains things quite clearly to you. So it's going to help you spot problems for yourself. This is also the part that generally requires the most support questions to be asked. So if you're like, this is hard to figure out for myself, the positioning, all this stuff. Don't be a stranger in the chat members. OK, so now we've got the minimum part of our brain set up. Let me show you what it can do once it's fully set up. So the whole point of filling out the brain here with your positioning statement, your buyer problems and eventually the other data you're going to see is that later in the course, I can use it like this so I could take a random intro that has nothing to do with the positioning of my channel, I can drop it into guardrails and it instantly rewrites it so it's aligned with my umbrella statement and the top three problems my buyers care about. Can you see the difference there? It literally makes sure we always relate everything back to the thing our dream buyers care about. And this is what makes it so powerful and what will make your content stick out more than anyone else's because the viewers are going to go, wow, this person flipping gets me. But we can also put in an idea and just say, what do you think of this idea? And it's going to say this is poorly aligned with what your buyers care about. It might say this is perfect. We can throw in a title and it's going to say this is a great title or a bad title. And it's going to give you some other suggestions. Now, what you need to be careful with is don't just go using the titles. This is not the ultimate title bot. It's just there for inspiration or use weird words. You will learn how to do titles properly in phase four when we do the strategy. But the real goal here is over the next six to 18 months, what we want to do is test fail as fast as we can and learn as much about our buyers as we possibly can. And then you just keep updating this problem list inside the brain. You update your outliers. Even your positioning statement can get updated. And then each update will make this thing smarter and more like your dream buyer, because that's what this is. We're basically creating your dream buyer to give feedback on everything you make so that it optimises it for them, nobody else. Honestly, this is one of the most powerful tools I've ever used for YouTube. I use it every flipping day. I'm very excited for you to have it too. Now, moving to the next video, we're just going to make some small adjustments to anything that you've discovered here following a slightly different process.
