[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  So let me ask you a question. Why is it that some people can get views but really struggle to generate sales from them whilst others can make a high ticket offer, build a bang average sales page, have no sales call and just email their list to say sales are open and everything just flies off their shelf? Well, I actually figured this out for myself years ago and it is because of this part of our pipe. This is the secret sauce to getting the biggest and best results because this section is where you can warm people up 10 times faster than absolutely anywhere else in our entire system. And to do that, you only do two things. The first is you make videos so good people ask, how is this even free? And the second is you make videos so good people go, how can I work with this person? There is no hack. There is no trick to game the system. For success on both YouTube and business, all you have to do is make the videos so flipping good, your viewers start to feel lucky that they've discovered you. Now, the bad news is this is going to require a really big mindset shift for you because most people want to find the fast, easy AI way to knock out a quick script that they can just throw up. Most people only spend an hour or two writing one. Most people rush. Most people do not want to do anything I'm about to show you because they're always looking for the fast, easy option. So all we have to do is not be like most people who fail at this game and do the opposite and work hard. Now, I am here to help you get faster at this. We can save time in so many areas sticking to my system. But this next phase is not the place to cut corners. But also, it's the hardest part because it's going to require you to really break yourself to level up. You are going to overthink. You're going to go, oh my gosh, this takes me 10 times longer than it used to. You're going to put all of this effort into what I'm showing you to do. And it's going to make no difference to your viewers. You're going to have to keep going because you don't just get good at this after one video. You practice it over and over and over again until it starts to feel second nature. And only after you've posted 30, 40 or 50 videos doing this, you're going to go, oh my gosh, I'm so glad I stuck to that plan. It's actually not as hard as it was anymore. So just don't be like everyone else who's looking for a shortcut here. Apart from when we launch a video, this is one of the highest stress points in the process, but also the most powerful. And I know it works. You're here because of it. All right, so what are we going to break down in this phase? The three things that you need to make a video so good people can't believe it's three. Then we're going to look at how to write intros. After that, we're going to go deeper on video structure and explore how to make content so good people go, how do I work with this person? We're then going to look at storytelling, metaphor, visual demos, frameworks, ending a video, and then how you optimize your content for conversions, as well as planning a video. And then writing one too. By the end of this, you are going to have access to a toolbox of techniques that when practiced enough, will turn your videos into complete sales machines. And all you need to do is pick and choose for them for each video and get good at knowing which one to use where and executing them over the years. And please just remember, we are breaking you to be remade into the Hulk of a channel that you want to be. This is going to be Max Payne. It's also worth noting that this phase is going to take a lot of time. If you have to spend two hours a day, two to three weeks on this and the tasks that I give you in it, then you are moving at a very fast rate. Don't worry that you're falling behind if things are not instantly clicking or if tasks feel hard. This is very natural with the position you're in right now. All right, let's move on to check out the basics of what makes a flipping great script.
