[00:00:00] Speaker 1:
  All right, so now we're going to look at thumbnail design basics. And the first thing I would encourage you to do is just to outsource design. I have a huge course teaching you photography and Photoshop. The thing is, it's a huge course because there's so much to learn about creating images. So I would highly recommend you outsource design. What I'm going to recommend we do is when we're coming up with our thumbnails, we do this. So this is how all my thumbnails start. A crappy doodle. You would then send it to your designer who would hopefully make it look better. But you do need to know the rules because a lot of fun designers are going to break them. So let's look at the basics of actual creative from that design. Now, the first thing is just composition. So there's this thing called the rule of thirds in its simplest form. You just put stuff where these lines intersect so we can see James here is on the left and he's intersecting on that line. And you'll see a lot of thumbnails do exactly the same thing where they're on the left. And then text is on the right. And then James here is on the right and he's on this intersecting line.

[00:01:04] Speaker 1:
  And then as you can see, Dango and Nisha and I can't remember his name, are on the right with the thing on the left. And then the other option is we're in the middle and you can see James's eyes are on the line here. And if we go and look at these examples, all of these are doing the same person in the middle text. So really, your choice for thumbnail design is pretty simple. Put yourself on the left, put yourself on the right, put yourself in the middle. But I always go on the right and most people do because we read left to right. So if we're using text and we want the text to stick out first, it just makes sense. But which one do you use? Well, you try different ones out until you find the thing that works. OK, so the next thing you need to understand is contrast. So which ones of these sticks out to you first? What do you notice? So in this image, in this style, I want the text to get attention. Now, this one sure gets attention. The problem is the green makes it harder. To read, right? And this one kind of sticks out. But this one where it's just white on black, it pops, right? It sticks out really fast. And that is because of contrast. So black and white are the opposites. They are the furthest point of contrast you can get. So when you're designing things, what we want to do is we want to make sure the thing that we want to stick out has contrast. So it's separated from the background. Although I do like that orange one. It's pretty good. So here's some examples of creators using contrast so that their hero sticks out so that it's clear, that it makes people curious and it has clarity. So Ben here has got the white Google box on a darker background, which gives it contrast. Damien here has got his gold popping. So that gives it contrast against the dark background. Although his white T -shirt is competing there. Leila Hormozi has got this bright yellow and then her hair are two points of high contrast. So she's sticking out from that background. Now, I've edited these to wreck the contrast. And you can see what happens. So what happens on this one, it doesn't quite ruin the image. Now the highest point of contrast is these. So these stick out. In this one, I've removed Damien's T -shirt. So now only this sticks out. And in this one, I took away the yellow. And you'll probably notice that Leila doesn't stick out as much. So we can use color. We can use shade to create contrast. The next one is space. Pay attention to this one because you guys always submit thumbnails that ignore it. So a thumbnail shouldn't look like this. We don't want to waste all of this space, right? But at the same time, we don't want it to be really crowded where everything's just jammed in together. And we also don't want to space out letters. So these big dirty lines in between. So when you use Photoshop, the default is to space text out like this. Keep an eye on that. What we want really is our text. So there's some gap between here, but also we've got a bit of a frame around the edge, so it's not too close to everything and it's easy to read. And you can see there's almost like an imaginary frame around this text, right? So if we look at space, that's what we started with. I made myself bigger to fill that horrible gap. And then the text pops a lot more too. So here's a thumbnail that is actually from Andrej Zik's channel. The thing I don't like about this one is this is the highest point of contrast. It's bright white.

[00:04:14] Speaker 1:
  So it's a waste of space. So we actually blew it up a little bit to fill that gap. And I think that's a better thumbnail. So space is about making sure there's not too much space and things aren't too crowded so that your hero's face is not too big.

[00:04:27] Speaker 1:
  So we've got a little bit of color here. And then there's color. So just think about color like this. Buyers of different ages are gonna like different things and are gonna have different expectations. So if you design your thumbnails with super bright colors and make them look like a radioactive oil spill so things are glowing,

[00:04:49] Speaker 1:
  it tracks bros, cryptos and kids.

[00:04:53] Speaker 1:
  So when you're doing your research, I'll teach you later, you're gonna do it. You're going to see millions of views attached to videos like this. You need to ask yourself, does my 45 -year -old female avatar want that? The answer is probably no. The next thing you want to think about is like the millennial age. What you tend to see on YouTube is they like this more authentic, more muted tones, right? So these are the exact opposite. They're not in your face. They're not packed full of e -numbers. They're kind of simple. So we then have the boomers. Sorry to call you that. I hate that word, but that's what you guys are called apparently. Again, like more muted tones, simpler designs, more authentic. So different ages like different designs. And that's often one of the mistakes people make with color is they go over the top of it. Next thing you want to be thinking about for a design is sex. Sorry. So men appeal to this shouty, sweary, angry looking face. Women do not. Women love actually more cluttered thumbnails that break way more of my rules. Softer lighting, more pastel shades. They often like less contrast, right? So although I've just told you... All of these design rules, you've got to remember, sometimes we're gonna have to break them and we're going to test. And based on the research you do, you're going to try things that maybe go against some of these rules, but we still need to test. And then we have text. So you need to understand that YouTube funnels are not another title. What we want is a max of four words, because look how long that takes to read. Now you can sneak in five maybe, but four is kind of the most I go for. Okay. So the next thing is like, do you put the text on two lines or three? And. You just want to keep in mind space. So if you put the text on two lines like this, you've got this big space here, big space here, and you might find it's better to have it on three lines like that. After that, there's our fonts. The first thing you need to realize is font size matters. So look at this. We've got this horrible gap here. What that means is, and it's annoying because certain words are long and then certain words are small. So we often get this ugly kind of look in our thumbnails that doesn't make it optimum for reading. So what I like to do is what I call. B. Boxing where I just make each line of text the same width and it makes it so much easier to read. The other thing you need to consider here is you got to use just one font style. So although this looks cool, the readability takes a hit. And one thing you need to consider if you are a branding person is that readability is more important than branding. Just because your business uses a certain font. If it doesn't work in a funnel, don't use it. The whole point is you're here to grow your business. So these are some fonts I recommend. I've used pop in a monster. For years. They're nice and bold. They're easy to read, but you're probably thinking, hang on a sec, Ed loads of people use different fonts. Stop arguing me. All right.

[00:07:34] Speaker 1:
  Well, of course, because this is a whole game of testing what works. So if over time you're posting and you're like, I've found a style and two fonts do work, we keep doing it. The next thing you want to be thinking about is like these little arrows and circles. You'll see them over YouTube for years, but they're great for pointing out a result or getting viewers eyes to look at the thing. They're great for pointing out a result or getting viewers eyes to look at the thing. But if you're looking for something that we think matters the most to them, right? The hero. So you'll see them a lot on YouTube. Don't just throw them in Willy nilly because you think you need them. But if you ever want to get someone's attention, an arrow is a really good way to do it. And then the next thing about fun design is hierarchy. So this is really important. So read this. You read this line and then you read this and then you read that and then you go up here because of the different font sizes. And this is known as hierarchy. Hierarchy is all about how you position things and size them to get attention. And that's why we keep doing this. We cannot design thumbnails that look like this. This thumbnail has no hierarchy at all. Everything is crammed. The colors are crazy. Nothing sticks out. So if we look at these images here in terms of hierarchy, the gold is the first thing that sticks out. Layla's the first thing that sticks out. The Google thing is the first thing that sticks out because the image has been designed. So the most important thing sticks out first. Now, when you are designing thumbnails, if you are using screenshots and so on, most people will turn around and be like, I'm going to put a stripe down. I'm going to put a dashboard in my phone. But it sucks, right? Because the viewers can't see that. So sometimes we have to edit things like screenshots that we put into our image to make sure that she stick out. So you can see here I colored underneath the graph purple. I made this text much bigger. I made the cells bigger. So it gives context, creates curiosity and the hierarchy works. And then we have emotion.

[00:09:13] Speaker 1:
  Don't do that. Like this is dead. Even Mr. Beast tested this and found that if he has his mouth open in videos now, he don't get as many clicks. So his videos are way more serious. So for emotion, just do a few things. Smile, be pan. You can look a bit confused, a little bit surprised. But don't make a face you wouldn't ever make in person. I can't imagine you ever go.

[00:09:35] Speaker 1:
  But also think about how you use emotion. So if I made a video with why I'm always happy and then that is what I look like. That makes sense, right? The video is about being happy. I should be smiling. So if we have a positive title or a positive thumbnail or positive topic, use a positive emotion. If it's mistakes, use a negative one. Or just be pan all the time. But your emotion really needs to match the packaging of the video. So it's not random. And then really with design, just keep things simple. Don't fall into the trap of thinking you need to make these really cinematic creative thumbnails. The simpler the better, especially if you're not great at design. The thing is, should you be in your image or out of it? Well, for years, until I had about 250 ,000 subscribers on Film Booth, I found that my face in the thumbnail generally didn't help it perform as well. And then after, I was like, oh, I'm going to make a video. It helped it perform as well. Having said that, my best performing video of all time had my face in, but it was covered by money. So the general rule of thumb is, cold viewers don't care about your face. Warm viewers do. So what do we do? We can test stuff. So some of you might want to try thumbnails that you're not in and thumbnails that you are in to work out what's the best direction. Now, let's move on to a few thumbnail mistakes you've got to avoid. So the first thing's first is a visual metaphor. If you ask AI to design you a thumbnail and you say, this video is about a roadmap for success, it's going to tell you to use a visual metaphor.

[00:10:53] Speaker 1:
  Don't ever do that, right? Thumbnails are monkey brain. We need to make viewers instantly go, oh, well, this looks interesting. And if we give them a map where they're like, wait, what's this? I have to work it out. A roadmap to success. Wait, what's this about? What's this compass thing? It doesn't work. Okay. And then this is an example of a visual metaphor not working. So unlock global clients. And then the image is a key, some doors opened, and then the world. People aren't going to look at that image, which they look at first and go, oh, this is a visual metaphor. Oh, cool. That's going to help me unlock global clients. They're going to go key door earth. Huh? Ain't going to click. So you need to avoid visual metaphors all the time. You also want to avoid being overly creative. It's nearly killed me and James. But for six months on Film Booth, we were like, let's just come up with the most creative, amazing looking art thumbnails we can possibly do. And every single one was a flop. We always had to go back to the back up. And we just realized effects like this giant money stuff that looks kind of cool and fun doesn't work on YouTube. It almost makes people think too hard. Another thing is stock. They just don't use stock images. They cheap. They're cheesy. If someone sees the traditional like man in a suit shaking someone's hand thing, they just look and go, oh, this is corporate nonsense. So avoid cheesy stock images. Oh, yeah. Here's another example of overly creative, like blew my mind with a head exploding. The viewers going, well, is this about headaches? Like, why is that man's head on fire? I blew my mind. Well,

[00:12:21] Speaker 1:
  it don't work. So avoid anything that's too creative. Sadly, the next one is called an inside joke. This is really important. This is an actual thumbnail I made years ago.

[00:12:33] Speaker 1:
  And the reason there is a shotgun in the thumbnail about music laws simplified is because in the video about a minute in, I made a joke about a shotgun. Well, if the viewers haven't clicked it, they don't know that this is relevant to the video. So I call this the inside joke. It's when you put something in your thumbnail, the viewers will only understand if they watch it. And people do this all the time. They're like, I put an apple in the thumbnail because I use a metaphor of an apple a minute in. It's like, well, they don't know that. So never make the inside joke. And the other thing to avoid is exact copies. So this guy is basically, as you can see, just copying my designs and the thumbnails. And he's doing a very good job of imitating me. This is kind of what you get taught to do on YouTube. The problem is you don't want to look like a cheap imitation. So you have to keep in mind this guy's viewers watch me. They're also YouTube creators. So they're going to go, that's Ed's thumbnail. And they're going to go, uh, a knockoff. So we don't want to look like knockoffs. We want to take what works and design it in a way that looks unique to us while still keeping the elements that can get results. The next thing is like, just don't go beyond your talent. My thumbnail course will teach you how to make this thumbnail. It took me and James three hours to photograph it. It's too much. Like Nick is an amazingly talented guy. This guy's a talented photographer. So is this lady. But they're artists at the end of the day. And if you're not, don't attempt these thumbnails. They're only going to backfire because you need years of experience. The other thing to avoid is obviously AI. So I stopped using the AI for my thumbnails because I noticed people weren't liking it. My viewers didn't seem to want AI. But on the other side of this, some channels, their viewers seem to really like AI. Like Wes's thumbnails are all AI and they look great. He's doing really well. So just keep that in mind. Like, although I'm going to teach these AI to make thumbnails, it might not be the right thing for you if they look too overly AI. All right. And then the next thing is just making sure you match your viewers. So you can see that the viewers are matching their viewers expectations once they've clicked. So when Charlie was getting less views, you know, he was making these sort of thumbnails. But he's making this sort of content inside. So we've got high production whiteboard inside. Don't really work, right? He switches his thumbnails to this. Then the content looks very similar. It matches the expectations of the click. So we can see Layla here. She's got this really authentic thumbnail. You click play. She's basically in the same room. So the expectations are matched. And then we have Mark here. He's got this book thumbnail. The opening shot, he's surrounded by books. It's matching expectations. So your thumbnail quality and your video quality must match. If we come up with something slick like that and then we shot in a webcam looking crap like this, it's a no -go. So really what you should do with thumbnails is just start very simple and bolt on complexity if your viewers require it. All right. So let's just do a quick rundown of everything we've learned here and look at the strategies and how they're making things work. So this is a thumbnail. The strategy they're using is the result because it says sell literally anything, the result people want. The context is there straight away because of the word sell. It's clear because the text has got nothing competing against it. And it's making me curious because I'm wondering how do I sell anything. So it's a nice simple thumbnail that works. Then we have this one from Trey from Talent House. This is Trey's first video he made after doing my program. It got 2 million views. It's a brilliant video. So the strategy he's using is curiosity because it says do this every day. It makes me go what? Do what? The context is the guitar because we can see the fretboard, right? Right. It's clear because well there's nothing competing of the attention, right? And it makes us curious because this is sticking out straight away and this. Then we have Matt. So Matt's got a very different strategy, high production. Strategy is the result and the result is working less. The context is given by work less and the fact that he's working in a kitchen. It's clear because although there's a lot going on here and it's kind of busy, this is pretty simple to read. It makes me curious. How do I work less and earn more? And then we have this video. The strategy is curiosity. It says liar. That hooks you, right? Like why is it a liar? She looks shocked. The context of the topic is the food bowl. This is going to be something about dieting or eating. It's very clear because there's high contrast on the text, high contrast on her. All the elements are sticking out. There's no clutter and it makes you curious. But Ed, I've seen the opposite of all this stuff work. Yes, of course, because sometimes your viewers will like things to be broken. So we use these rules as a benchmark and then we build on it using our MVP system. Let's start with him. Okay, hold on.
